anxious	lo lắng, áy náy	When a person is anxious, they worry that something bad will happen. She was anxious about not making her appointment on time.	
awful	đáng sợ, khủng khiếp	When something is awful, it is very bad. Her performance last night was awful.	
consist	(+ of) gồm có	To consist of is to be made of parts or things. Today's choices for lunch consisted of pizza, hamburgers, and hot dogs.	
desire	sự thèm muốn, sự khao khát	To desire is to want something. My sister desires a big house and lots of money.	
eager	ham, háo hức	When a person is eager about something, they are excited about it. The man was eager to talk about the good news.	
household	gia đình; hộ	A household is all the people who live in one house. Our household is made up of my father, my mother and me.	
intent	chăm chú	An intent is a plan to do something. Her intent is to visit Italy next summer.	
landscape	phong cảnh	A landscape is how an area of land looks. The landscape of the country is very green.	
lift	nâng lên, nhấc lên	To lift something is to move it higher. The man tried to lift the box.	
load	vật nặng, gánh nặng	To load is to put objects into something. The man loaded the boxes into a truck.	
lung	phổi	A lung is the organ in the body that fills with air when breathing. Having strong lungs is necessary for a healthy life.	
motion	sự chuyển động	A motion is a movement that someone makes. The police officer made a motion with his hand.	
pace	bước	The pace of something is the speed at which it happens. I ran the race at a slower pace than my friend.	
polite	lễ phép, có lễ độ, lịch sự	When someone is polite, they are acting in a thoughtful way. The boy was very polite: he behaved very thoughtfully.	
possess	có, chiếm hữu	To possess something is to have it or own it. My uncle possesses three sheep, a chicken, a cow and a dog.	
rapidly	[một cách] nhanh chóng, [một cách] mau lẹ	When something happens rapidly, it happens very fast. The train moved rapidly on the tracks.	
remark	nhận xét	To remark is to say something. The teacher remarked on how quickly the students were learning.	
seek	tìm, kiếm	To seek is to look for something. If I have a problem, I seek my sister's advice.	
shine	chiếu sáng, tỏa sáng; sáng	To shine is to make a bright light. The candles are shining in the dark room.	
spill	[làm] tràn, làm đổ (chất nước)	To spill is to have something fall out of its container. I spilled the coffee on the table.	
bring	làm cho, gây ra, mang lại, đem lại	To bring means to take someone or something to a person or place. Oscar will bring in all the boxes.	
castle	lâu đài	A castle is a building with strong walls where royalty usually lives. The castle was built many years ago.	
command	ra lệnh	To command someone is to tell them to do something. The general commanded his army to attack.	
counsel	lời khuyên	To counsel someone is to listen and give advice about a problem. The teacher counseled the girl about her troubles.	
ensure	bảo đảm	To ensure is to make certain that something happens. Eating good food ensures that we stay healthy.	
explosion	sự nổ	An explosion is a violent burst, usually with a loud sound. A nuclear explosion can cause great damage.	
jewelry	đồ châu báu	Jewelry is something that people wear like earrings or necklaces. The woman looked beautiful with her nice dress and jewelry.	
land	đất, đất liền	To land means to come to the ground usually from a ship or aircraft. The parachutist landed safely on the ground.	
meteor	sao băng	A meteor is a rock from outer space that falls to Earth. We saw a meteor in the sky last night.	
monster	quái vật	A monster is any imaginary frightening creature that looks strange. The monster scared everyone in the village.	
northern	[thuộc phương] bắc;[ở] phương bắc	If something is northern, it is in the direction of north. It is much colder in northern countries than it is here.	
remote	xa, xa xôi	If something is remote, it is very far away and difficult to get to. It took many days to get to the remote island.	
southern	người ở miền Nam	If something is southern, it is in the direction of south. Taegu is located in the southern part of the Korean peninsula.	
statue	bức tượng	A statue is an image of a person or animal made of stone or metal. I saw a beautiful statue of a lion today.	
steam	hơi nước	Steam is water that has become hot and has turned into a misty gas. We could see the steam rise from the boiling water.	
submit	phục tùng, quy phục, đệ trình	To submit to someone is to agree to do what they tell you to do. She submitted to her mother's wishes and did her homework.	
temple	đền, điện	A temple is a building that is used for religious purposes. The people visited the temple to pray.	
upper	cao, trên, thượng	Upper means higher in position or place. A home's attic is at the upper part of the structure.	
weed	cỏ dại, cần sa	A weed is a plant, especially one that is not useful or wanted. The yard of the house was full of ugly weeds.	
wing	cánh (chim, sâu bọ, máy bay…)	A wing is the part of an animal that lets it fly. The bird used its wings to fly across the water.	
arrow	mũi tên, tên (bắn từ cung ra)	An arrow is a thin, straight stick shot from a bow. The arrow flew through the air and hit the target.	
battle	trận đánh; cuộc chiến đấu	A battle is a fight between two armies during a war. The battle lasted for many days.	
bow	cái cung	A bow is a weapon made of curved wood and string that shoots arrows. He went hunting with a bow and arrow.	
brave	can đảm, anh dũng (người)	When people are brave, they are not afraid to face pain or danger. The brave firefighter saved the girl from the burning building.	
chief	thủ lĩnh, trưởng	A chief is the leader of a group of people. The chief led the people through the mountains.	
disadvantage	thế bất lợi; điều bất lợi	A disadvantage is a situation where someone is likely to lose. Mike had a disadvantage in the race since he hurt his knee.	
enemy	kẻ thù	An enemy is a country that is fighting another country during a war. The enemy prepared to attack the kingdom.	
entrance	cửa vào; lối vào	An entrance is a place where someone can enter an area. The gate was locked, so Bill had to find a different entrance.	
hardly	vừa mới	If something hardly happens, it almost does not happen at all. I hardly saw the concert since I had to leave early.	
intend	định, có ý định	To intend to do something means to plan to do it. I intend to finish college in three years.	
laughter	sự cười, tiếng cười	Laughter is the sound produced by laughing about something funny. Susan's joke made her classmates burst into laughter.	
log	khúc gỗ mới đốn	A log is a thick piece of wood that is cut from a tree. The fire was too small, so we added another log to it.	
military	[thuộc] quân sự, [thuộc] quân đội	The military is the armed forces of a country. I joined the military after I finished high school.	
obey	vâng lời, vâng theo; tuân theo	To obey means to follow what a law or a person says you must do. My little sister did not obey my mother. Now she is in trouble.	
secure	bảo đảm, chắc chắn	To secure something means to get it after a lot of effort. I was able to secure a good grade on my test after weeks of studying.	
steady	vững, chắc	When someone or something is steady, they are under control. The problem was hard but she remained steady and solved it.	
trust	sự tin, sự tin cậy, sự tín nhiệm	Totrust is to believe that someone is honest and will do what is right. I trust my friends, they don't tell my secrets to other people.	
twist	quấn, xoắn	To twist something is to wrap it around itself or another thing. She twisted the spaghetti around her fork.	
unless	trừ phi; trừ khi; nếu không	Unless means if not or except when. Unless you clean your room, you cannot play with your friends.	
weapon	vũ khí (nghĩa đen, nghĩa bóng)	A weapon is an object that can be used to hurt people. Swords have been used as weapons for thousands of years.	
chest	rương, hòm, tủ	The chest is the front part of a person's body under the neck. The water in the lake was as high as my chest.	
confidence	(+ in) sự tin, sự tin cậy, sự tin tưởng	If you have confidence about something, you are sure of it. I have confidence that I did well on the test.	
consequence	hậu quả	A consequence is a result of a choice or action. ' Asa consequence of missing my bus, I had to find another way to work.	
disaster	tai họa, thảm họa	A disaster is a really bad thing that happens. When the car crashed, it was a disaster.	
disturb	xáo lộn	To disturb someone means to upset them. The loud noise disturbed me while I was working.	
estimate	sự ước lượng, sự ước tính	To estimate something means to make a guess about it. The boy estimated that he was one meter tall	
honor	danh dự	When you honor people or things, you show respect for them. I honor my science teacher by working hard in class.	
impress	gây ấn tượng; làm cảm động	To impress someone means to make that person proud. He was able to impress the girls with his new dance.	
marathon	cuộc chạy ma	ra	tông	A marathon is a very long foot race just over 42 kilometers. I ran a marathon, and now my legs are tired.	
narrow	hẹp; hạn hẹp	When something is narrow, it is very thin. The bridge is too narrow for a car to drive over.	
pale	tái, nhợt nhạt	When something is pale, it does not have a bright color. The girl's skin was very pale.	
rough	ráp, nhám	When something is rough, it is not even or smooth. The rough ground hurt my feet.	
satisfy	làm (ai) vừa ý	To satisfy someone means to make them happy. It will satisfy my teacher if I finish all my homework.	
scream	hét lên, thét lên	To scream means to make a loud noise with your mouth. The girl saw a spider and screamed.	
sensitive	nhạy cảm	When someone or something is sensitive, they are easily hurt. My teeth are sensitive to cold things.	
shade	bóng râm	The shade is a dark area that something makes when it blocks the sun. It was hot outside, so the boy sat in the shade of a tree.	
supplement	phần bổ sung, phần phụ	Tosupplement something is to add something else to it in a good way. He supplements his diet with fresh fruits.	
terror	sự khiếp sợ; sự kinh hoàng	When someone feels terror, they are scared. I felt a sense of terror when the tiger chased me.	
threat	sự đe doạ, sự hăm doạ	A threat is something bad that might happen. Due to the dark clouds, there was a threat of a bad storm.	
victim	nạn nhân	A victim is a person that had something bad happen to them. I was a victim of a robbery	
ancestor	tổ tiên, ông tổ	An ancestor is a family member from the past. My ancestors came from Germany.	
angle	(toán) góc	An angle is the direction from which you look at something. The giraffe turned its head to see from another angle.	
boot	ủng, bốt	A boot is a heavy shoe that goes over your ankle. He wore boots so that his feet wouldn't get wet.	
border	biên giới	A border is the edge of an area. The postcard had a pretty green border of pine needles.	
congratulate	(+ on) chúc mừng	To congratulate someone is to tell them that you are happy for them. Bill and Angela congratulated each other on a job well done.	
frame	khung	A frame is a border for a picture or mirror. I have to get a frame for my friend's picture.	
heaven	thiên đường	Heaven is the place that some people believe people go when they die. When I die, I hope that I go to heaven.	
incredible	không thể tin được	If someone or something is incredible, it is hard to believe they are true. I have an incredible story to tell you about my vacation.	
legend	truyền thuyết	A legend is a story from the past. There is a well-known legend about a king and his queen.	
praise	khen,ca ngợi; tán dương	To praise is to show that you like someone or something. The coach praised both athletes after a good practice.	
proceed	tiến lên, tiến	To proceed is to go in a certain direction. My son and I proceeded to the beach so we could go fishing.	
pure	ròng; tinh khiết	If something is pure, it is very clear and beautiful. The rose was pure. It had no dirt or imperfections.	
relative	tương đối	A relative is a family member. My relatives came by to see the new baby.	
senior	thâm niên hơn	If one is senior, they are the oldest or have been there the longest. Because he got his job first, Bob is the senior chef.	
silent	yên lặng; yên tĩnh	If someone or something is silent, they make no sound. Since no one was home, the house was silent.	
sink	chìm, ngập	To sink into something is to slowly fall into it. The boat had a hole in it, and it sank into the ocean.	
superior	cao, tốt	If someone or something is superior, they are better than another. I think cooking outdoors is superior to cooking indoors.	
surround	bao quanh; bao vây	Tosurround something is to close in on it from all sides. We surrounded the suspect on all four sides.	
thick	dày đặc, rậm rạp	If something is thick, it is wide and solid. The fog was so thick that I couldn't see through it.	
wrap	gói; bọc	To wrap is to cover something on all sides. I wrapped his gift and put a bow on it.	
abroad	ở nước ngoài, ở hải ngoại	If someone goes or travels abroad, they go to another country. My brother wants to go abroad next year.	
anger	sự giận dữ; sự tức giận	To anger someone is to make them mad. It angers me when people are rude.	
bride	cô dâu	A bride is a woman who is getting married or has just gotten married. The bride looked beautiful in her wedding dress.	
brief	ngắn, vắn tắt; gọn	If something is brief, it only lasts fora short time. The meeting this afternoon was very brief.	
chase	rượt theo, đuổi theo	To chase someone or something is to follow them in order to catch them. I was chased by an angry native.	
disappoint	làm thất vọng	To disappoint is to make one feel sad or unsatisfied. I do not want to disappoint my family, so I try to do well at school.	
dive	lao đầu xuống nước	To dive is to jump into water. I will dive into the lake once we get there.	
exchange	sự trao đổi, sự đổi chác	To exchange means to give something for another thing in return. I exchanged my foreign money for American dollars.	
favor	thiện ý; sự quý mến	A favor is something you do for someone to help them. Can you do me a favor and turn off the lights?	
fee	tiền thù lao	A fee is an amount of money that a person or company asks for a service. I had to pay an hourly fee to speak with my lawyer.	
forever	mãi mãi	If something lasts forever, it means it lasts for all time. The young couple promised that they would love each other forever.	
guy	anh chàng, gã	A guy is an informal way to call a man. The guy at the flower shop was really helpful today.	
lovely	đẹp, hấp dẫn	If people or things are lovely, they are good-looking or beautiful. The trees look lovely in the fall.	
mood	tâm trạng; tính khí	A mood is the way someone is feeling. I am in a good mood because I did well on my math test.	
palace	cung, điện, dinh, phủ	A palace is a very large building. It is often the home of a royal family. The king and queen live in a beautiful palace.	
permit	cho phép	To permit something is to let someone do it. I was sick, so my mother permitted me to stay home from school.	
protest	sự phản kháng; sự kháng nghị	To protest something is to argue about it with someone. The people protested the decision of the president.	
sculpture	nghệ thuật điêu khắc; nghệ thuật chạm trổ	A sculpture is a piece of art that is made from wood, clay, or stone. We saw an old sculpture of Buddha at the museum.	
tribe	bộ lạc	A tribe is a group of people who live in the same culture. There's a small tribe of people who live in the mountains of Spain.	
youth	tuổi trẻ, tuổi thanh niên	Youth is a time in people's lives when they are young. My mother wanted to be a nurse in her youth.	
basis	nền tảng;cơ sở	To do something on time's basis is how often you do it. My grandfather gets his hearing checked on a yearly basis.	
biology	sinh [vật] học	Biology is the study of living things. We learned about the human heart in biology class.	
cage	lồng, chuồng (nhốt chim, súc vật nuôi)	A cage is something that holds an animal so it cannot leave. We put the parrots in their cage at night.	
colleague	bạn đồng nghiệp, bạn đồng sự	A colleague is somebody you work with. My colleague helped me finish the job	
colony	thuộc địa	A colony is a country controlled by another country. The USA was at one time a colony of Great Britain.	
debate	cuộc tranh luận	To debate is to seriously discuss something with someone. The husband and wife debated over which TV to buy.	
depart	ra đi, khởi hành	To depart is to leave some place so you can go to another place. The plane departed for Italy at 3:00 this afternoon.	
depress	làm chán nản, làm ngã lòng	To depress someone is to make them sad. The bad news from work depressed the man.	
factual	căn cứ trên sự kiện	When something is factual, it is true. John learns about history from factual books.	
fascinate	quyến rũ, hấp dẫn	To fascinate someone is to make them really like something. The kitten was fascinated by the ball of yarn.	
mission	sứ mệnh, nhiệm vụ	A mission is an important job that is sometimes far away. The woman's mission was to help sick people.	
nevertheless	tuy nhiên, mặc dù vậy	You use nevertheless to show that something goes against a fact. He is usually friendly. Nevertheless, he wasn't this afternoon.	
occupation	sự chiếm, sự ở (một ngôi nhà…)	An occupation is a person's job. My father's occupation is a dentist	
overseas	[ở] nước ngoài; [từ] nước ngoài	If you go overseas, you go to a country on the other side of an ocean. John often goes overseas for vacations.	
persuade	làm cho tin, thuyết phục	Topersuade someone is to make them agree to do something. The children persuaded their parents to buy them gifts.	
route	đường; tuyến đường	A route is the way you go from one place to another. I saw many new houses along the route to the city.	
ruins	sự đổ nát, sự suy đồi	Ruins are old buildings that are not used anymore. I visited some interesting ruins in Greece.	
scholar	học sinh được hưởng học bổng	Ascholar is a person who studies something and knows much about it. The scholar knew much about art history.	
significant	có ý nghĩa; đầy ý nghĩa	When someone or something is significant, they are important. I read many significant novels as a literature major in university.	
volcano	núi lửa	A volcano is a mountain with a hole on top where hot liquid comes out. When the volcano erupted, smoke and heat filled the air.	
broad	mênh mông, bao la	If something is broad, it is wide. The river is very long and broad.	
bush	bụi cây, bụi rậm	A bush is a plant with many thin branches. It is smallerthan a tree. My dad and I planted some small bushes around the house.	
capable	có tài, có năng lực, giỏi	If someone or something is capable of something, they can do it. The Olympic athlete is capable of lifting a lot of weight	
cheat	gian lận	To cheat is to be dishonest so that you can win or do well. They cheated on the test by sharing answers.	
concentrate	tập trung	To concentrate on someone or something is to give your full attention. I could not concentrate on my homework because the room was so loud.	
conclude	(từ Mỹ) quyết định	To conclude is to arrive at a logical end by looking at evidence. I saw crumbs on my dog's face, so I concluded that he ate my cookie.	
confident	tin, tin tưởng, tự tin	Confident means that one believes they can do something without failing. She was confident she could climb the mountain due to her training.	
considerable	rất lớn, to tát	If something is considerable, it is large in size, amount or extent. They paid a considerable amount of money for that car.	
convey	chở, vận chuyển	To convey is to communicate or make ideas known. That picture of a crying child conveys a feeling of sadness.	
definite	rõ ràng, dứt khoát	If something is definite, it is certain or sure to be true. There is a definite connection between hard work and success.	
delight	sự vui thích, sự vui sướng	Delight is a feeling of being very happy with something. He felt such delight after getting a promotion at work.	
destination	nơi đến, nơi gửi tới	A destination is the place where someone or something is going to. The destination of this plane is Munich, Germany.	
dictate	đọc cho viết; đọc chính tả	To dictate something is to read it aloud so it can be written down. He dictated his speech so his secretary could write it down.	
edge	lưỡi, cạnh sắc (dao, kiếm…)	The edge of something is the part of it that is farthest from the center. He ran to the edge of the cliff.	
path	(cách viết khác pathway, foot	path) đường mòn, đường nhỏ	A path is a way from one place to another that people can walk along. We followed a path through the woods.	
resort	nhờ đến, dùng đến	To resort to something is to depend on it in order to solve a problem. I hope they don't resort to violence to end the argument.	
shadow	bóng	A shadow is the dark area that is made when something blocks light. The man's shadow was taller than he was.	
succeed	thành công	Tosucceed is to complete something that you planned or tried to do. He will continue to work on the robot until he succeeds.	
suspect	ngờ, nghi	To suspect something is to believe that it is true. I suspect that those kids stole the money.	
valley	thung lũng	A valley is a low area of land between two mountains or hills. We looked at the valley below from the top of the mountain.	
admire	cảm phục, thán phục	To admire someone is to like them for what they do. I admire my brother for his hard work.	
aid	sự giúp đỡ, sự cứu giúp	To aid someone is to help them when they need something. The doctor aided the boy after his accident.	
attempt	cố thử (làm gì)	To attempt something is to try to do that thing. I am attempting to learn English.	
authority	uy quyền, quyền lực	Authority is the power that someone has because of their position. The policeman has authority on the streets.	
capital	thủ đô, thủ phủ	A capital is an important city where a country's leaders live and work. We will visit the capital to learn about our government.	
cooperate	hợp tác	To cooperate is to work together to do something. The students cooperated to clean up the classroom.	
defend	phòng thủ, bảo vệ	To defend someone or something is to protect them from attack. The soldiers defended the town from the invaders.	
destruction	sự phá hoại, sự phá huỷ, sự tiêu diệt	Destruction is damage to something so bad that it can't be fixed. After the big fire, there was much destruction in the city.	
disorder	sự lộn xộn, sự rối tung	Disorder is a lack of order, or a complete mess. The teacher's desk had many papers in disorder.	
division	sự chia; phép chia	A division is the act of making smaller groups out of a larger one. The chart had six divisions which all had different colors.	
enable	làm cho có thể	To enable a person is to make it possible for them to do something. Having the key enabled us to open the door.	
frustrate	ngăn trở	To frustrate is to prevent someone from fulfilling their desire. The machine frustrated me because I could not fix it	
govern	cai trị; cai quản	To govern is to control the public business of a country, state, or city. The United States is governed from the White House.	
plenty	số lượng phong phú; số lượng dồi dào	To have plenty of something is to have more than you need. The school had plenty of books for the students to read.	
relieve	làm giảm nhẹ, làm bớt đi	To relieve someone is to make them feel less pain. The medicine relieved the sick boy.	
reputation	tiếng (tốt hoặc xấu)	Reputation is the opinion that people have about someone. The doctor had a reputation for helping people.	
royal	[thuộc] vua, [thuộc] nữ hoàng	Royal describes something that belongs to a king or queen. The king sat upon the royal throne.	
slave	nô lệ (đen, bóng)	A slave is a person who is not free and must work for someone else. The slave worked very hard all day long.	
struggle	đánh nhau, cố gắng; vật lộn	To struggle is to fight against someone or something. The kids struggled with each other for the toy.	
stupid	ngớ ngẩn, ngốc nghếch	When someone is stupid, they lack intelligence. He said something stupid that made everyone angry at him.	
citizen	công dân	A citizen is someone who lives in a certain town or city. Carlos was born in Spain. He is a Spanish citizen.	
council	hội đồng	A council is a group of people who run a city or town. The council met to discuss the new laws for the city.	
declare	tuyên bố; công bố	To declare is to say something officially. I declared my love for him.	
enormous	to lớn, lớn lao, khổng lồ	When people or things are enormous, they are very large. My dog looks enormous next to yours.	
extraordinary	lạ thường, khác thường	When someone or something are extraordinary, they are amazing. The fireman who rescued the girl was extraordinary.	
fog	sương mù	Fog is a thick cloud that is near the ground or water. I did not want to drive in the thick fog.	
funeral	đám tang	A funeral is a ceremony that takes place after a person dies. They had a funeral for the soldier who died during the war.	
giant	(trong các truyện huyền thoại) người khổng lổ	When people or things are giant, they are very big. The giant truck got in my way.	
impression	ấn tượng	An impression is the way of thinking about someone or something. Most people's first impression of Dr. Giani is that he is mean.	
income	thu nhập	Income is how much money a person or business makes. Her company pays her a fairly good income.	
mad	điên	When someone is mad, they are angry. Mother got mad when I didn't listen to her.	
ought	phải, nên	If someone ought to do something, then it is the right thing to do. I ought to take my library books back.	
resist	chống lại, kháng cự	To resist something is to fight against it. He resisted the treatment at the hospital.	
reveal	để lộ, bộc lộ, tiết lộ	To reveal is to show something. I will reveal where I hid the candy bar.	
rid	giải thoát khỏi, [get (be) ... of] tống khứ (ai, cái gì…)	To rid is to make a place free from something or someone. We rid our home of mice by using traps.	
sword	gươm, kiếm	A sword is a long sharp weapon. They used to use swords in battles in ancient times.	
tale	chuyện bịa; chuyện	A tale is a story. She told her two friends about the wild tale of her day.	
trap	cái bẫy	Totrap people or animals is to capture them so they cannot get away. We trapped butterflies in a net.	
trial	phiên toà [xử án]	A trial is the way a court discovers if a person is guilty or innocent. He went on trial for robbing the bank.	
violent	hung dữ; dữ dội	When people are violent, they want to hurt someone. The man was put into jail because he was violent.	
admission	sự vào, sự nhận vào	Admission is the act of allowing to enter a place. The admission ticket to the movie was $5.	
astronomy	thiên văn học	Astronomy is the study of the stars and planets. Harold loved watching the stars, so he decided to study astronomy.	
blame	chê trách, trách mắng	To blame someone for something bad is to say they did it. My mom blamed me for something I didn't do.	
chemistry	hóa học	Chemistry the study of and reaction to substances. In chemistry class, the professor taught us about chemical reactions.	
despite	dù, mặc dù, bất kể	If something happens despite what you do, it happens anyway. We still played the game despite the cold weather.	
dinosaur	khủng long	A dinosaur is a very big animal that lived millions of years ago. I like to see the dinosaur bones at the museum.	
exhibit	vật triển lãm; bộ sưu tập triển lãm	An exhibit is a display of interesting things. There was an animal exhibit at the fair.	
fame	danh tiếng, tiếng tăm	Fame is reputation one has gained among the public. He had fame and fortune, but he was not happy.	
forecast	dự đoán, tiên đoán	A forecast is an idea about what the weather will be like in the future. The forecast says that it will rain all week.	
genius	thiên tài; bậc thiên tài	A genius is a very smart person. Since she was a genius, she easily passed all of her school exams.	
gentle	hiền lành, hòa nhã	Someone who is gentle is kind and calm. He is very gentle with the baby.	
geography	địa lý học	Geography is the study of where things are. I had to draw a map for geography class.	
interfere	can thiệp vào, xen vào	To interfere is to cause problems and keep something from happening. My little sister always interferes when I'm trying to study.	
lightly	[một cách] nhẹ, [một cách] nhẹ nhàng	To do something lightly is to not push very hard. Draw lightly so you do not tear your paper.	
principal	chính, chủ yếu	A principal is a person in charge of a school. My school's principal can be very strict with the rules.	
row	hàng, dãy	A row is a line of things. James put all of his toy soldiers into neat rows.	
shelf	cái xích đông; cái giá	A shelf is a place on a wall where you put things. I keep my clothes on a shelf in my closet.	
spite	ác ý	If you do something out of spite, you want to be mean. He snuck into his sister's room and stole her bag out of spite.	
super	siêu hạng; tuyệt vời	Super means really good. My dad said I did a super Job cleaning the house.	
wet	ẩm ướt, đẫm nước	If something is wet, it has water on it. Since my dog was wet, he tried to shake all the water off his body.	
abuse	lạm dụng	To abuse someone or something means to hurt them on purpose. The mean man abused his dog when it barked too loudly	
afford	(thường dùng với can, could, be able to) có đủ khả năng, có đủ điều kiện (làm việc gì)	To afford something means you have enough money to pay for it. I've been saving my money, so I can afford to buy a new bike.	
bake	nướng, bỏ lò	To bake means to cook food with heat. My sister is a good cook. She bakes delicious cakes.	
bean	đậu	A bean is a plant seed that is good to eat. There are many different kinds of beans to eat.	
candle	cây nến	A candle is a stick of wax that is lit on fire for light or heat. When the lights went out, we lit some candles.	
convert	đổi, chuyển đổi	To convert something means to change it into something else. The man converted his messy field into a garden of flowers.	
debt	nợ	A debt is an amount of money that a person owes. I have not paid my gas bill. I owe a debt to the gas company.	
decrease	sự giảm	To decrease something is to make it less than it was before. Hiring more police officers has decreased crime in the city.	
fault	thiếu sót, khuyết điểm	A fault is a mistake. It is my fault that the cat ran away. I left the door open.	
fund	quỹ	A fund is an amount of money that people have. We all put money into our club's fund.	
generous	rộng rãi, hào phóng	When someone is generous, they like to give things to people. The generous man donated several new computers to our school.	
ingredient	thành phần	An ingredient is something that is part of a food dish. The main ingredients in cake are eggs, sugar and flour.	
insist	cố nài, khăng khăng đòi	To insist means to be firm in telling people what to do. I insist that you try some of these cookies.	
mess	tình trạng bừa bộn	A mess is a condition that is not clean or neat. Heather's room was a complete mess.	
metal	đường sắt, đường ray	Metal is a strong material people use to build things. Steel is a common metal that is used to build buildings.	
monitor	máy dò, máy đo	To monitor people or things is to watch them closely. The teacher monitors the students when they take tests.	
oppose	chống đối; phản đối	To oppose something means to dislike it or act against it. I want to be a police officer because I oppose crime.	
passive	bị động; thụ động	If a person is passive, they do not take action to solve problems. Marcie is so passive that she never solves her own problems.	
quantity	lượng, số lượng, số	A quantity is a certain amount of something. I have a small quantity of milk in my glass.	
sue	kiện	To sue someone is to take them to court for something wrong they did. I sued the company after I slipped on a banana peel in their hallway.	
anxiety	sự lo lắng; mối lo lắng	When someone has anxiety, they have a lot of worries and fear. When I have to climb to high places, I'm filled with anxiety.	
army	quân đội	An army is a large group of people who fight in wars. The army protects all the people in the country.	
billion	nghìn tỷ, triệu triệu	A billion is a very large number: 1,000,000,000. There are billions of stars in outer space.	
carve	tạc, chạm	To carve means to cut into something. My father usually carves the turkey for Thanksgiving.	
consult	hỏi ý kiến, thỉnh thị	To consult someone means to ask them for help. I will consult my accountant to find a way to pay for my bills.	
emergency	tình huống khẩn cấp	An emergency is a time when someone needs help right away. There is a huge fire in my house! This is an emergency!	
fortune	vận may; sự may mắn	When someone has good fortune, it means they have luck. I have good fortune when I play cards.	
guarantee	sự bảo hành	To guarantee means to know something will happen. I guarantee that the sun will come up in the morning.	
hike	cuộc đi bộ đường dài (để luyện tập hay để tiêu khiển)	To hike means to walk in the mountains or forest. I always bring plenty of equipment with me when I hike.	
initial	đầu, đầu tiên	When something is initial, it is the first thing. The initial step when writing a paper is to find a good topic.	
intense	mạnh, có cường độ lớn	If something is intense, it is very strong. The skunk made an intense odor that filled the air.	
lend	cho mượn; cho vay	To lend something is to give it to someone for a short time. My sister lost her pen, so I will lend her mine.	
peak	đỉnh, chóp (núi); núi	The peak is the very top of a mountain. There is snow on the peaks of those mountains.	
potential	tiềm tàng	Potential means capable of being but not yet in existence. I've thought of some potential problems with your idea.	
pride	kiêu hãnh; tự cao, tự phụ	When you have pride, you are happy with yourself. I take pride in getting good grades.	
proof	chứng cứ; bằng chứng	Proof is a fact that shows something is real. They used his fingerprint as prooffor the crime he committed.	
quit	rời khỏi (một nơi)	To quit something means to stop doing it. I quit running because I got tired.	
spin	[làm] xoay tròn;[làm] quay tít	To spin is to turn around in circles. The boy kept spinning until he fell down.	
tiny	bé tí, tí hon	When people or things are tiny, they are very small. A baby's hand is tiny.	
tutor	gia sư; thầy dạy kèm	A tutor is someone who gives lessons in a certain subject. My sister is bad at math. So my mother hired a tutor to help her.	
apparent	bày rõ ra ngoài; rõ ràng	If something is apparent, it is easy to see. Her happiness was apparent from the smile on her face.	
blind	mù	When people are blind, they cannot see. The blind man didn't see the hole and almost fell in.	
calculate	tính toán	To calculate is to find an answer using math. I calculated how much money I would need to buy the car.	
chat	tán gẫu	To chat is to talk with someone. Even though they were far apart, the couple chatted every day.	
commit	tuyên bố công khai	To commit to something is to promise to do it. Seth wanted to go home, but he had committed to finishing the job.	
compose	soạn, sáng tác	To compose something is to make it from smaller parts. Tonya composed her report using many sources of information.	
dormitory	phòng ngủ (ở ký túc xá…)	A dormitory is a school building where students live. I will move into the dormitory at the beginning of the school year.	
exhaust	khí thải, hơi thải	To exhaust someone is to make them tired. John exhausted himself by swimming all day.	
greenhouse	nhà kính [trồng cây]	A greenhouse is a small glass building that is used to grow plants. We have a small greenhouse in our backyard where we grow plants.	
ignore	làm ngơ, bỏ qua	To ignore something is to act like you do not see or hear it. I ignored the message he was making and kept studying.	
obvious	rõ ràng; hiển nhiên	If something is obvious, it is clear and easily seen. It was obvious that he was tired. He kept falling asleep.	
physics	vật lý [học]	Physics is a science that deals with energy and how it affects things. In physics class, we used Newton's Cradle to learn about energy.	
portion	phần; phần chia, suất ăn (một người)	A portion of something is a part of it. I only ate a small portion of the pizza.	
remind	nhắc, làm nhớ lại	To remind someone is to tell them to remember to do something. Nick's dad reminded him to do his homework.	
secretary	thư ký	A secretary is a person who works in an office. Rebecca asked her secretary to type a report.	
severe	nghiêm khắc; khắc nghiệt	If something is severe, it is very bad or serious. After hitting his hand with the hammer, Sam was in severe pain.	
talent	tài, tài năng	If someone has a talent, they are naturally able to do it well. Maria has a talentfor playing the piano.	
thesis	luận đề luận cương	A thesis is an idea that needs to be proved. She did not support her thesis very well.	
uniform	cùng một, giống nhau	A uniform is a piece of clothing worn by people of the same group. All the members of our marching band wear matching uniforms.	
vision	sự nhìn; sức nhìn	Vision is the act of seeing. The eye doctor tested my vision.	
absorb	hút, hấp thu	To absorb a liquid means to take it inside. He used a sponge to absorb the water on the floor.	
boss	ông chủ, ông xếp	A boss is a person in charge of other people at work. My boss is a nice person.	
committee	ủy ban	A committee is a group of people who meet together to make decisions. The school's committee agreed on a new dress code for students.	
contract	hợp đồng	A contract is a written agreement between two people. The woman signed a contract when she bought the house.	
crew	phi đội; thủy thủ đoàn	A crew is a group of workers. My father has a crew. They help him build houses.	
devote	hiến dâng, dành hết cho	To devote time to something means to spend a lot of time doing it. She devotes two hours a day to playing the piano.	
dig	đào, bới	To dig is to make a hole in the ground. My dog digs in the yard so he can hide his bones.	
dine	ăn cơm trưa (có khi quá trưa sang chiều rồi, nhưng là bữa ăn chính trong ngày)	To dine means to eat dinner. The young couple dined at their home.	
donate	biếu, tặng, quyên góp	To donate is to give something to a charity or organization. We donate money to Christmas charities every year.	
double	đôi, hai, kép	If something is double, it is twice as much, or twice as many. I paid almost double the amount for that shirt.	
elevate	nâng lên, đưa lên	To elevate something is to put it at a higher level. The man elevated the picture so he could see it better.	
flavor	vị ngon, mùi thơm; mùi vị	A flavor is the taste of food or drinks. The flavor of the ice cream was very good.	
foundation	sự thành lập, sự sáng lập	A foundation is a group that provides money for research. The foundation raised money to give scholarships to students.	
generation	sự tạo ra, sự phát ra	A generation is a group of people who live at the same time. My grandparents are from a different generation than me.	
handle	cán, tay cầm, quai	A handle is the part of an object people hold while using it. The pot is very hot. So pick it up by the handle.	
layer	lớp	A layer covers over something or is between two things. There was a layer of snow on the tops of the houses this morning.	
mud	bùn	Mud is soft, wet dirt. My brother played rugby in the mud. Now he's dirty.	
smooth	nhẵn, phẳng, trôi chảy, suôn sẻ	If something is smooth, it has no bumps. The baby's skin felt very smooth.	
soil	đất	Soil is the top layer of land on the Earth. The boy planted flowers in the soil and watered them every day.	
unique	độc nhất; độc nhất vô nhị	If people or things are unique, they are not like the others. Her dog is unique. I've never seen one quite like it.	
chamber	buồng, phòng, buồng ngủ	A chamber is an old word for a bedroom. The girl was tired. She went to her chamber fora nap.	
deny	phủ nhận	To deny something is to say it is not true. The boy denied that he broke the window.	
document	văn kiện, tư liệu	A document is an official piece of writing. He was given an official document proving he was a citizen.	
emphasize	nhấn mạnh	To emphasize is to give importance or attention to something. She emphasized the key points by circling them in red ink.	
fever	sốt	A fever is a high body temperature that people get when they are sick. Lydia had a high fever so she didn't go to school.	
flu	bệnh cúm	The flu is a type of sickness that makes you feel weak or your body hurt. Since he had the flu, he felt miserable.	
freeze	[làm cho] đóng băng	To freeze is to become very cold. If you don't wear your coat in winter, you will freeze.	
gesture	sự ra hiệu (bằng tay, bằng đầu)	A gesture is a movement of the hands or body. My teacher makes a lot ofgestures when she speaks.	
interrupt	làm gián đoạn, làm đứt quãng	To interrupt is to briefly stop someone when they are doing something. My mother interrupted me when I was trying to listen to music.	
last	cuối cùng	To last is to continue or go on for an amount of time. The football match lasted for nearly two hours.	
likeness	sự giống nhau	Likeness means the state of being like, or resemblance. Michelle bears a strong likeness to her older sister Kate.	
moreover	hơn nữa, ngoài ra	Moreover means besides or in addition to something. It's cold outside. Moreover, the wind is very strong.	
perspective	phép phối cảnh	A perspective is the way you think about something. The man's speech gave me a new perspective on our country.	
rational	có lý trí	When something is rational, it is normal or practical. It is hard to think in a rational way when you are scared.	
recover	lấy lại, giành lại	To recover is to go back to normal after something bad happens. I hope the city will recover soon after the flood.	
rely	cậy vào, dựa vào	To rely on something or someone is to trust or depend on them. The boy relied on his older brother to help him.	
shock	sự va mạnh, sự rung chuyển mạnh	To shock people is to surprise them. The man was shocked by the news.	
shy	nhút nhát; bẽn lẽn, e lệ	When people are shy, they are nervous around people strange to them. The girl was too shy to try out for the play.	
stare	nhìn chằm chằm; trố (mắt) nhìn	To stare at something is to look at it for a long time. The young couple stared into each other's eyes.	
thus	như thế, như vậy	Thus means as a result or for that reason. The sun was shining. Thus, I wore my sunglasses.	
aim	nhắm, chĩa	An aim is a goal someone wants to make happen. My aim is to become a helicopter pilot.	
attach	trói, buộc, gắn, dán	To attach is to put two things together. I attached the socks to the clothesline to dry.	
bet	đánh cuộc, đánh cá	To bet is to risk money on the result of a game or a business. How much will you bet that your horse will win?	
carriage	xe ngựa (bốn bánh, chở người)	A carriage is a vehicle pulled by a horse. We took a carriage ride in the park.	
classic	có phẩm chất cao	If something is classic, it is typical. The athlete made a classic mistake-he started running too soon.	
commute	(+ between, from, to) đi lại đều đặn hằng ngày từ nhà đến cơ quan (bằng xe búyt…)	To commute is to travel a long distance to get to work. I usually commute to work on the train.	
confirm	xác nhận, chứng thực	To confirm is to make sure something is correct. Winning the game confirmed that James was a good player.	
criticize	phê bình, phê phán	To criticize is to say you do not like someone or something. He criticized his wife forspending too much money.	
differ	(+ from) khác, không giống	To differ is to not be the same as another person or thing. I differ from my brother: he is short, while I am tall.	
expense	sự tiêu tốn; dịp tiêu tốn	An expense is the money that people spend on something. She wrote down all the expenses for her trip.	
formal	theo nghi thức	If something is formal, it is done in an official way. It was a formal dinner, so we wore our best clothes.	
height	bề cao	Height is how tall someone or something is. My height is 168 centimeters.	
invent	phát minh, sáng chế	To invent something is to create something that never existed before. My grandfather has invented some interesting things.	
junior	[ở] cấp dưới	If someone is junior in their job, they do not have a lot of power. When she started at the company, she was only a junior manager.	
labor	lao động	Labor is the act of doing or making something. Building the house took a lot of labor.	
mechanic	thợ máy	A mechanic is someone who fixes vehicles or machines. We took the car to the mechanic to be fixed.	
prime	quan trọng bậc nhất, hàng đầu	If something is prime, it is the most important one. Dirty air is a prime cause of illness.	
shift	[làm] di chuyển, [làm] xê dịch	To shift to something is to move into a new place or direction. He shifted to the other side of the table to eat his breakfast.	
signal	hiệu	A signal is a sound or action that tells someone to do something. The coach blew his whistle as a signal to begin the game.	
sincere	chân thật, thành thật	When people are sincere, they tell the truth. He sounded sincere when he apologized to me.	
ability	khả năng	Ability is the quality of a person being able to do something well. His swimming abilities let him cross the entire lake.	
agriculture	nông nghiệp	Agriculture is the growing of food and animals. The farmer studied agriculture in college.	
cartoon	tranh truyện	A cartoon is a funny drawing. Sometimes, people draw cartoons for the newspaper.	
ceiling	trần (nhà)	The ceiling is the top of a room. He painted the ceiling with a special roller.	
convince	làm cho nhận ra, làm cho tin	To convince someone means to make them sure of something. She convinced me to buy the house.	
curious	ham hiểu biết; tò mò, hiếu kỳ	When you are curious about something, you want to know more about it. I opened up the clock because I was curious about how it worked.	
delay	chậm trễ, trễ	To delay means to wait to do something. I was delayed at the airport for over two hours.	
diary	nhật ký	A diary is a book in which people write their personal experiences. I do not let anybody read my diary.	
element	yếu tố	An element of something is a particular part of it. Tackling an opponent is Johnny's favorite element of American football	
faith	(+ in) sự tin tưởng, sự tin cậy; niềm tin	When people have faith in something, they believe in it and trust it. The sick girl had faith in doctors. She knew they would make her better	
grain	thóc lúa; lúa mì	Grain is food crops such as wheat, corn, rice or oats. The farmer planted two fields of grain this year.	
greet	chào, đón chào	To greet someone means to meet and welcome them. When my friend came over, I greeted him at the door.	
investigate	điều tra dò xét	To investigate means to search for something or learn about it. The detective went to investigate the crime.	
joy	niềm vui sướng, niềm hân hoan	Joy is a feeling you get when you are really happy. I love baseball. I feel joy when I play.	
label	nhãn hiệu, nhãn	A label is a tag that tells about something. The label on the back of your shirt will tell you what size it is.	
monk	thầy tu, thầy tăng	A monk is a religious person who lives a simple life. The monks knew a lot about religion.	
odd	kỳ cục, lẻ	When something is odd, it is unusual. Her cat is odd. It walks on two feet.	
pause	(in something) sự tạm nghỉ, sự tạm ngừng	To pause means to stop doing something for a while. Since she was so hungry, she paused to make a snack.	
priest	giáo sĩ	A priest is a person trained to perform religious duties. The priest taught us about God.	
profession	nghề, nghề nghiệp (thường chỉ những nghề phải có văn hóa cao và rèn luyện chuyên môn như nghề kiến trúc, nghề y, nghề luật…)	A profession is a person's job. He loved sailing, so he chose to work on ships as a profession.	
adopt	nhận làm con nuôi	To adopt someone is to make them as a part of one's own family. The girl was adopted by the couple when she was three.	
beg	ăn xin, xin	To beg is to ask for something one really wants. The man begged for some money.	
beyond	ở bên kia	If A is beyond B, A is farther away. John's house is beyond that lake.	
costume	trang phục, áo quần	A costume is a set of clothes people wear for a particular occasion. The woman wore a mask with her costume.	
exclaim	thốt lên, kêu lên	To exclaim is to say something loudly, usually due to being excited. "Look at her dress!" Sara exclaimed.	
extend	kéo dài, mở rộng	To extend is to stretch out or reach. The boy extended his hand to catch the ball.	
fool	thằng ngốc	A fool is someone who makes unwise choices. The girl was a fool for playing too close to the water.	
forbid	cấm	To forbid is to tell someone they cannot do something. My father forbids watching TV while we're eating dinner.	
illustrate	minh họa	To illustrate is to show something by drawing a picture. The executive illustrated the decreasing profits of the company.	
indeed	thực, quả thực, thực tình	Indeed means truly or really. The birthday party was indeed fun last night.	
interpret	giải thích	To interpret is to explain what something means. The woman interpreted what her co-worker was trying to say.	
kindly	tử tế, tốt bụng	If people do something kindly, they do it in a nice way. The stranger kindly cared for the hurt man.	
motive	động lực; lý do (của một hành động)	A motive is the reason someone does something. His motive for studying so hard is to get into a good college.	
nest	tổ	A nest is a place where a bird lays its eggs. The bird laid her eggs in the nest that she made.	
origin	gốc, nguồn gốc, căn nguyên	The origin of someone or something is where they come from. The origin of the honey that we eat is from a beehive.	
reception	sự nhận; sự tiếp nhận	A reception is a party to welcome a person or celebrate an event. We all danced and had a good time at the wedding reception.	
reject	không chấp thuận, bác bỏ	To reject is to refuse something because you do not want it. The girl rejected the broken cup.	
silence	sự yên lăng, sự yên tĩnh	Silence is complete quiet. The man asked for silence while he worked on the problem.	
stream	suối, dòng suối	A stream is a small river. The boy caught a fish in the stream.	
tone	tiếng, âm	Tone is the sound of someone's voice. It shows how they feel. My father's tone told me I had broken the rule.	
accomplish	hoàn thành	To accomplish something means to finish it. He accomplished his goal of running ten miles.	
approve	tán thành, chấp thuận	To approve of something means you like it or are happy about it. Her co-workers approved her new plan.	
approximate	xấp xỉ, gần đúng	Approximate means to be close to an exact amount, number or time. My approximate height is two meters.	
barrier	cái chắn đường; hàng rào	A barrier is something that is in your way. The Great Wall was a barrier between China and its enemies.	
detect	phát hiện ra, khám phá ra	To detect something means to notice or find something. The boy ran to the kitchen when he detected the smell of cookies.	
duty	nhiệm vụ, trách nhiệm	A duty is something that a person has to do. It is parents' duty to take care of their children.	
elementary	sơ cấp, sơ đẳng	When something is elementary, it is the first or most simple thing. Children go to elementary school before high school.	
failure	sự thất bại; lần thất bại	A failure happens when you do not do something right. My cooking ended in failure because I burned the food.	
gradual	tuần tự, từng bước	When something is gradual, it happens slowly. Children learn to read at a gradual pace. They do not learn right away.	
immigrant	dân nhập cư	An immigrant is a person who moves to a different country. My parents were immigrants. They came from Poland.	
insert	cài vào, lồng vào. Đưa vào	To insert something means to put it in something else. The mailman inserted the letter into the mailbox.	
instant	ngay [tức khắc]	An instant is a very short amount of time. A microwave oven cooks food in an instant.	
poverty	sự nghèo, cảnh nghèo khổ	Poverty is the state of being poor. Poverty is a problem in many countries around the world.	
pretend	giả vờ, giả đò	To pretend means to make believe something is real. The boy liked to pretend he was a king.	
rank	hạng, loại	A person's rank is their place in an order of people. The man got to the rank of captain in the navy.	
recognition	sự thừa nhận	Recognition is getting praise from other people. The hero got recognition for his brave deed.	
refrigerate	làm lạnh, ướp lạnh (thịt, sữa…)	To refrigerate something means to make it cold. Grocery stores refrigerate fruit to make it last long.	
rent	tiền thuê (nhà, đất, máy thu hình…); tô	Rent is the money people pay to someone to live in a certain place. To live in this house, I have to pay rent at the start of each month.	
retire	nghỉ hưu; cho nghỉ hưu	To retire is to leave a job, usually because of old age. My father is sixty-five years old. He is about to retire from work.	
statistic	con số thống kê	A statistic is a number that tells a fact about something. The statistics showed that we did just as well this year as last year.	
astronaut	nhà hàng không vũ trụ	An astronaut is a person that goes into outer space. The astronaut was walking on the moon.	
awake	đánh thức; thức dậy	When you are awake, you are not asleep. Sometimes I lay awake in bed because I am not tired.	
courage	sự can đảm, sự dũng cảm	When you have courage, you are not afraid. The man had the courage to touch the lion.	
float	nổi	To float is to move on top of water without sinking. The boy's toy boat floated in the pool.	
grant	cho, ban, cấp	To grant something is to allow someone to have it. The teacher granted us a break after studying hard all day.	
gravity	trọng lực	Gravity is the force that makes things fall to Earth. There is no gravity in space.	
jewel	ngọc, đá quý	A jewel is a beautiful stone that is worth a lot of money. A diamond is one of the most expensive jewels in the world.	
miner	công nhân mỏ	A miner is a person who works in a mine. The miner was looking for gold.	
mineral	chất khoáng	A mineral is a type of substance found in the Earth. Rocks are made up of different kinds ofminerals.	
participate	tham gia, tham dự	To participate is to take part in something. The students participated in the school play.	
permission	sự cho phép	Permission means the act of allowing the doing of something. I have permission to drive my mom's car.	
pour	rót, đổ, trút	To pour a liquid means to make it come out of a container. I poured some milk into my sister's cup.	
presence	sự có mặt, sự hiện diện	Someone or something's presence is the fact they are there. The presence of dark clouds meant it would rain.	
raw	sống (chưa nấu chín)	If a material is raw, it is natural and has not been processed. The company dumped raw sewage into the river.	
satellite	vệ tinh	A satellite is something that is sent into space to get information. The satellite was traveling around the earth.	
scale	vảy (cá, rắn…)	The scale of something is its size, especially when it is very large. I was surprised by the scale of the buildings in the downtown area.	
skip	nhảy tâng tâng	To skip something is to not do it. He skipped work to get more sleep.	
stretch	giăng ra, căng ra	To stretch is to make your arms or legs reach out. She stretched her body before exercising.	
telescope	kính viễn vọng	A telescope is a tool people use to look at the stars. With a telescope, you can see the moon and stars easily.	
underground	dưới mặt đất	When something is underground, it is below the surface of the Earth. Subway trains travel underground	
alarm	sự báo động, hiệu báo động	An alarm is something that warns people of danger. When the students heard the fire alarm, they left the building.	
apart	xa, xa cách, tách biệt	When people or things are apart, they are not close together. The couple decided to live apart from each other.	
arrest	bắt giữ	To arrest someone means to catch them for doing something bad. The man was arrested for breaking the law.	
award	trao tặng, trao	An award is a prize someone gets for doing something well. He got an award for having the best grades in class.	
breed	sinh, đẻ, sinh sản	A breed is a group of animals within a species. I like small dog breeds, such as terriers.	
bucket	thùng xô (để múc nước)	A bucket is a round containerto put things in. I filled the bucket with water.	
contest	phản bác, cuộc tranh tài, cuộc thi	A contest is a game or a race. The girls had a contest to see who could jump higher.	
convict	kết án	To convict someone means to prove that they did a bad thing. He was convicted of the crime and sent to jail.	
garage	nhà xe	A garage is the part of a house where people put their cars. My car does not get dirty because I keep it in the garage.	
journalist	nhà báo, phóng viên	A journalist is a person who writes news stories. Thejournalist took notes for a story he was writing.	
pup	chó con	A pup is a young dog. All the girl wanted for her birthday was a pup.	
qualify	[làm cho] có đủ khả năng	To qualify is to get, or to be declared, adequate or good enough. He qualified to go to the final match by beating the opponent.	
repair	sửa, chữa, sửa chữa	To repair something is to fix it. I repaired the flat tire on my car.	
resume	lấy lại; chiếm lại; giành lại; hồi phục lại	To resume something means to start it again after taking a break. I put the newspaper down to eat breakfast. Then I resumed reading.	
rob	cướp đoạt; cướp; lột	To rob a person or place is to take their property by using force. A thief has robbed me of my passport.	
slip	sự trượt chân	To slip means to slide and fall down. The man slipped on the wet floor.	
somewhat	hơi, khá là	Somewhat means to some degree, but not to a large degree. James was somewhat upset when he had to move some boxes.	
stable	ổn định, bền vững	When something is stable, it will not fall over. The chair is stable. Its legs are strong	
tissue	giấy lau	A tissue is a soft piece of paper people use to wipe their noses. There was a box of tissue on the table.	
yard	sân	A yard is the ground just outside of a person's house. The girls jumped rope in the yard.	
alike	giống nhau; tương tự	If two things or people are alike, they are similar in some way. People often think my sister and I look alike.	
annoy	làm bực mình	To annoy someone means to bother them. The flies buzzing around John's head annoyed him very much.	
architecture	kiến trúc	Architecture is the style or way a building is made. The architecture of the church is amazing.	
artificial	nhân tạo	If something is artificial, it is made to look like something natural. That soccer field has artificial grass, but it looks real.	
chain	dây, xích	A chain is a series of connected loops often used to keep things in place. The scary dog was secured with a chain.	
distinct	dễ nhận, dễ thấy	If something is distinct, it is easily noticed or different from other things. That girl has distinct pink hair.	
distinguish	phân biệt	To distinguish is to recognize differences between things. The twins look exactly the same. It is hard to distinguish between them.	
dust	bụi	Dust is very tiny pieces of dirt or other matter. In the old house, the dust was thick on the floor and chairs.	
excitement	sự kích thích, sự khích động	Excitement means to feel a lot of happiness about something. Did you see the excitement in her when the team scored?	
heal	chữa khỏi (bệnh)	To heal means to make a part of the body healthy again after injury. After my broken arm heals, I can play baseball again.	
inherit	thừa kế; thừa hưởng	To inherit is to get something from someone who has died. She inherited her mother's gold earrings.	
manner	(số ít) cách, lối	A manner is the way someone does something. His manner of not looking at someone while speaking, is a bit rude.	
mount	núi, đồi	Something mounts when it becomes stronger over time. His fear mounted as the monster crawled out from under his bed.	
roof	mái nhà	A roof is the outside top part of a building. The roof was covered with snow.	
shortage	sự thiếu; lượng thiếu	A shortage is a lack of something you need or want. Since there was a shortage of food, people were hungry.	
solid	rắn, đặc	If something is solid, it is made of firm material. The safe looked to be quite solid.	
stock	kho hàng dự trữ; lượng hàng dự trự	A stock is a stored amount of something. They keep a stock of rice so they'll always have something to eat.	
substance	chất	A substance is any specific material or mixture of materials. Water is an important substance for all living things.	
tomb	mộ, mồ	A tomb is a grave where a dead person is buried. Their whole family is buried inside the tomb.	
wound	vết thương; thương tích	A wound is an injury to the body. He had many wounds after the car accident.	
bath	sự tắm	A bath is water in a tub. People take a bath to get clean. After playing in the dirt, the boy took a bath.	
bend	bẻ cong, uốn cong	To bend is to move something so it is not straight. Lee bent over and picked up the paper on the ground.	
chew	nhai	To chew is to move your mouth to break up food. I always chew my food carefully before swallowing it.	
disabled	người tàn tật	When a person is disabled, they cannot do what a normal person can do. The disabled man used a wheelchair to move around.	
fantastic	kỳ quái	If something is fantastic, it is really good. The student did a fantastic job on his project and got an award.	
fiction	văn hư cấu	Fiction is a story that is not true. I enjoy reading works offiction because they are very entertaining.	
flag	cờ	A flag is a piece of colored cloth that represents something. Our country has a beautiful flag.	
inspect	kiểm tra, xem xét kỹ	To inspect is to look at something carefully. The mechanic inspected our car to see if it had any problems.	
journal	báo, tập san	A journal is a type of magazine that deals with an academic subject. Mi-young was busy working on an article for an artjournal.	
liquid	chất lỏng	A liquid is a substance that is neither solid nor gas. Water is the most important liquid for life.	
marvel	điều kỳ diệu	To marvel at something is to feel surprise and interest in it. We marveled at her excellent piano playing.	
nutrient	chât dinh dưỡng	A nutrient is something that a living thing needs to keep it alive. Vegetables are full of important nutrients.	
overcome	thắng; chiến thắng	To overcome a problem is to successfully fix it. She overcame her shyness and spoke in front of the class.	
recall	gọi về, đòi về, triệu hồi	To recall something is to remember it. She was trying to recall what she had told her friend.	
regret	sự thương tiếc	To regret something is to wish that it didn't happen. I regret that I was mean to my sister.	
soul	linh hồn	A soul is a person's spirit. Some people believe that the soul lives after the body dies.	
sufficient	đủ	When something is sufficient, you have enough of it. After eating a sufficient amount of food, I left the table.	
surgery	(y học) phẫu thuật	Surgery is medical treatment when the doctor cuts open your body. I needed surgery to repair my leg after the accident.	
tough	dai, bền	If something is tough, it is difficult. The man passed his driving test even though it was very tough.	
tube	ống	A tube is a pipe through which water or air passes. The pile of tubes was going to be put in the ground.	
admit	nhận, thu nhận, kết nạp	To admit something means to say that it is true. I had to admit that I stole his idea.	
bin	thùng	A bin is a container that holds things. He put his trash in the bin.	
bowl	(thường dùng trong từ ghép) bát tô	A bowl is a deep, round dish that holds food or liquid. I ate a bowl of cereal for breakfast.	
cabin	buồng	A cabin is a small house made of wood. My grandfather owns a small cabin in the country.	
cash	tiền mặt	Cash is money in the form of paper or coins. I was able to save up enough cash to buy my mother a gift.	
criminal	có tội, phạm tội	A criminal is a person who does something against the law. The police made sure the criminal couldn't move his hands.	
dozen	tá	A dozen is a group of twelve things. Mom brought home a dozen donuts for us as a treat.	
elder	lớn [tuổi] hơn (trong gia đình)	An elder is a person who is olderthan the people around them. Uncle Ray is my elder so I always try to be respectful.	
facial	[thuộc] mặt	If something is facial, it is related to a person's face. I could tell from his facial features that he was angry.	
fence	hàng rào	A fence is a structure around a house or field. The farmer put up a fence so that no one could walk on her field.	
inspire	gây cảm hứng	To inspire means to make a person want to do something. I was inspired to write a poem after watching the sunrise.	
mere	chỉ là	When something is mere, it is small or not important. We lost the game by a mere two points.	
neat	ngăn nắp, gọn gàng	If something is neat, it is very clean or organized well. My sister always keeps her bedroom very neat.	
occasion	dịp; cơ hội	An occasion is a time when something important happens. Her graduation was an occasion to have a good time.	
penalty	sự phạt	A penalty is a punishment, given when someone breaks a rule or law. I had to pay a $100 penalty for parking in the wrong spot.	
rude	khiếm nhã; vô lễ	When someone is rude, they are mean and not polite. The children at the bus stop were very rude.	
settle	cư trú, định cư	To settle a problem means to end it by finding a solution. It took three of our best executives all day to settle the problem.	
vehicle	xe, xe cộ	Avehicle is a thing that moves people or things to another place. A ferry is a vehicle that takes people from one island to another.	
wallet	cái ví	A wallet is a thing that holds money and fits in a pocket. I keep my money in a wallet.	
yell	la, hét	To yell is to say something very loudly. The coach yelled at his team for their poor performance.	
accuse	kết tội	To accuse someone of something is to blame them for doing it. She accused her brother of breaking her computer.	
adjust	sửa lại cho đúng, hiệu chỉnh	To adjust something means to change it so it is better. He adjusted the old guitar to make it sound better.	
amuse	làm cho cười; làm cho vui cười	To amuse someone means to do something that is funny or entertaining. The singer was very good. She amused the crowd.	
coral	san hô	Coral is the hard, colorful material formed by the shells of animals. The diver admired the beautiful coral under the water.	
cotton	bông	Cotton is a cloth made from the fibers of the cotton plant. I like to wear clothes made from cotton in the summer.	
crash	tiếng đổ vỡ lỏang xoảng, tiếng rơi đánh sầm	To crash means to hit and break something. There was a loud noise when the car crashed into the tree.	
deck	(hàng hải) boong tàu, sàn nhà	A deck is a wooden floor built outside of a house or the floor of a ship. A ship will store many supplies below its deck.	
engage	thuê (ai) làm	To engage in something means to do it. Dad was engaged in sawing a piece of wood in half.	
firm	chắc, rắn chắc	When something is firm, it is solid but not too hard. He sleeps better on a firm bed.	
fuel	chất đốt, nhiên liệu	Fuel is something that creates heat or energy. Heat is the fuel that comes from fire.	
grand	tráng lệ, huy hoàng	When something is grand, it is big and liked by people. The grand mountain rose high into the sky.	
hurricane	bão	A hurricane is a bad storm that happens over the ocean. The wind from the hurricane bent the palm tree.	
loss	sự mất	A loss means the act or an instance of losing something. I suffered a big loss while I was gambling.	
plain	trơn	If something is simple, it is plain and not decorated. He bought a pair of plain white shoes over the weekend.	
reef	mép cuốn buồm	A reef is a group of rocks or coral that rise to or near the ocean. He walked along the reef and looked at the water below.	
shut	đóng, khép, đậy, nút	To shut something means to close it tightly. Please shut the door, the air outside is cold.	
strict	nghiêm ngặt; nghiêm khắc	When someone is strict, they make sure others follow rules. The teacher is strict. She does not let students talk in class.	
surf	sóng nhào; bọt sóng nhào	To surf means to use a special board to ride on waves in the ocean. The students went to the beach to surf during their vacation.	
task	nhiệm vụ, công việc	A task is a piece of work to be done that is usually difficult. My task for the weekend was to clean the entire back yard.	
zone	sọc màu, khoanh màu	A zone is an area that has different qualities from the ones around it. Firefighters often work in danger zones.	
apology	sự tạ lỗi, sự xin lỗi	An apology is something someone says to show that they are sorry. After arguing with her teacher, the girl wrote the teacher an apology.	
bold	dũng cảm, gan dạ	If someone is bold, they are not afraid of doing something. The bold man climbed the high mountain.	
capture	bắt giữ	To capture someone or something is to catch them. James tried to capture the bubbles in his hands	
cardinal	chính, chủ yếu	If a rule or quality is cardinal, then it is the most important one. Raising your hand in the classroom before you speak is a cardinal rule.	
duke	công tước	A duke is a man of high social rank but below a king or queen. The duke ruled over the land.	
expose	phơi ra	To expose is to make known something that is hidden. He took off his shirt exposing his costume	
guilty	có tội, tội lỗi	If people feel guilty, they feel bad for what they did. I felt guilty for taking my sister's cookies.	
hire	thuê, mướn	To hire someone is to pay them money to work for you. We hired a man to paint our house.	
innocent	vô tội	If someone is innocent, they are not guilty of a crime. The judge said that the woman was innocent of the crime.	
jail	nhà tù	Jail is a place where criminals go to be punished. The thief was caught and sent to jail for ten years.	
minister	bộ trưởng	A minister is an important person in government with many duties. The minister of education controls the country's schools.	
ordinary	thường, bình thường	If someone or something is ordinary, they are not special in any way. Today was just an ordinary day. Nothing unusual happened.	
permanent	lâu dài, bền lâu, vĩnh cửu	If something is permanent, it lasts for a long time or forever. We don't know if Aunt Mildred's visit will be a permanent one.	
preserve	giữ; giữ gìn; bảo tồn	To preserve is to protect something from harm. Dad sprayed a chemical on the house to help preserve its looks.	
pronounce	phát âm; đọc	To pronounce is to say the sounds of letters or words. Young children often have trouble pronouncing words right.	
resemble	giống [với], trông giống [như]	To resemble someone is to look like them. The baby resembles his father a great deal.	
symptom	triệu chứng bệnh	A symptom of a bad condition or illness is a sign that it is happening. Sneezing and a high fever are symptoms of the common cold.	
tobacco	thuốc lá (cây lá)	Tobacco is a plant whose leaves are smoked, such as in cigarettes. The tobacco in cigarettes is bad for your health.	
twin	trẻ sinh đôi	Twins are two children born at the same time. My sister and I are twins. We look exactly the same.	
witch	mụ phù thủy	A witch is a woman with magical powers. People think that witches fly around on broomsticks.	
accompany	đi kèm, hộ tống; đi theo	To accompany other people means to join them or go with them. My brothers accompanied me to the movie.	
bare	(	r, 	st) trần, trọc	When something is bare, it is plain. It has no covering. He likes to walk around in his bare feet.	
branch	cành (cây)	A branch is the part of a tree with leaves. The monkey was hanging from a branch on the tree.	
breath	hơi gió thoảng, làn gió thoảng	A breath is the air that goes into and out of one's lungs. You can't take a breath under water.	
bridge	cầu	A bridge is something that is built over a river so people can cross it. The old bridge fell into the river	
cast	ném, quăng, liệng	To cast something means to throw it. The fisherman cast his line into the water.	
dare	dám	To dare means to be brave enough to try something. He dared to jump out of the airplane and skydive.	
electronic	[chạy bằng dòng] điện tử	When something is electronic, it uses electricity to do something. I like having electronic devices such as an MP3 player.	
inn	quán trọ, lữ quán	An inn is a place where travelers can rest and eat. The visitor got a room at the inn.	
net	lưới	A net is a bag made of strong thread. It is used to catch animals. The boy caught butterflies in his net.	
philosophy	triết học, tính bình thản trong mọi hoàn cảnh	A philosophy is a way to think about truth and life. My philosophy is "live and let live. "	
pot	ấm, bình, chậu, lọ	A pot is a deep, round metal container used for cooking. Don't touch the pot on the stove. It's hot.	
seed	hạt; hạt giống	A seed is the hard part of a plant or fruit that trees grow from. I planted the seed in the dirt hoping that it would grow into a tree.	
sharp	sắc; nhọn	When something is sharp, it has a thin edge that cuts things easily. That knife is very sharp. Be careful not to hurt yourself.	
sort	loại, hạng, thứ	A sort of something is a type of it. What sort of instrument do you want to learn to play?	
subtract	trừ	To subtract means to take something away. We learned how to subtract numbers from each other in class.	
tight	chặt	When something is tight, it is fixed or fastened firmly in place. The knots were too tight to untie.	
virtual	thực sự, thực tế (tuy không phải chính thức)	If something is virtual, then it is very close to being true or accurate. Because he's popular, Joe is the virtual leader of the group.	
weigh	cân nặng	To weigh something means to see how heavy it is. The little dog weighed exactly 3kgs.	
whisper	thì thầm	To whisper means to say very quietly. We have to whisper in the library so people can focus on reading.	
abstract	trừu tượng	If ideas are abstract, they are based on general ways of thinking. The idea of beauty is abstract and changes over time	
annual	hằng năm	If something is annual, it happens once a year. The only time I see my aunts and uncles is at ourannual family picnic.	
clay	đất sét	Clay is a type of heavy, wet soil used to make pots. She made a bowl out of the clay.	
cloth	mảnh vải; miếng giẻ	Cloth is material used to make clothes. His shirt is made of a very soft type ofcloth.	
curtain	màn che, treo màn, che màn	A curtain is a cloth hung over a window or used to divide a room. She opened the curtains to let light into the room.	
deserve	đáng, xứng đáng	To deserve is to be worthy of something as a result of one's actions. The dog deserved a bone for behaving very well.	
feather	lông (của chim), lông vũ	Feathers are the things covering birds' bodies. That bird has orange feathers on its chest.	
fertile	màu mỡ, phì nhiêu (đất)	If land is fertile, it is able to produce good crops and plants. The farmer grew many vegetables in the fertile soil.	
flood	[làm] ngập lụt, bị lụt	A flood is an event in which water covers an area which is usually dry. After three days of rain, there was a flood in the city.	
furniture	đồ đạc (trong nhà)	Furniture is the things used in a house such as tables and chairs. His living room only had a few simple pieces offurniture.	
grave	nghiêm trọng, trầm trọng, phần mộ	A grave is the place where a dead person is buried. We visit our grandfather's grave each year.	
ideal	lý tưởng	If something is ideal, it is the best that it can possibly be. This house is an ideal place for my family. It has everything we need.	
intelligence	sự thông minh; trí óc	Intelligence is the ability to learn and understand things. Because of his high intelligence, he finished school early.	
nowadays	ngày này, thời nay	If something happens nowadays, it happens at the present time. In the past people walked everywhere. Nowadays, they use cars.	
obtain	đạt được, giành được, thu được	To obtain is to get something you want or need. After I passed the test, I obtained my driver's license.	
religious	[thuộc] tôn giáo, [thuộc] đạo;[thuộc] tín ngưỡng	When something is religious, it has to do with religion. The holy man spoke about religious topics.	
romantic	như tiểu thuyết; thơ mộng	When something is romantic, it has to do with love. The young couple went to see a romantic movie.	
shell	vỏ (trứng, sò, ốc…), mai (cua…)	A shell is a hard covering that protects the body of some sea creatures. There were many pretty shells on the beach.	
shore	bờ (biển, hồ lớn)	A shore is the edge of a large body of water. All of the boats were floating near the shore.	
wheel	bánh xe	A wheel is a round thing on a vehicle that turns when it moves. A car has four wheels.	
appeal	kêu gọi, cầu khấn	To appeal to someone is to be interesting or attractive to them. Sleeping all day appeals to me, but I have to go to school.	
assume	cho rằng; thừa nhận	To assume something is to think that it is true, even with no proof. I assume you are both familiar with this plan	
borrow	vay, mượn	To borrow something is to take it and then give it back later. Can I borrow a pencil to use today? I'll give it back to you tomorrow.	
client	khách hàng (của một cửa hàng)	A client is a person or business that pays another to do a service. She has many clients who enjoy coming to her salon.	
downtown	ở khu trung tâm thành phố	The downtown is the center of most cities. The downtown is filled with many tall buildings.	
dull	đục, mờ, xỉn	If something is dull, it is not exciting. The movie was very dull. I fell asleep watching it.	
embarrass	làm lúng túng	To embarrass someone is to make them feel ashamed or foolish. He was embarrassed when he couldn't remember her name.	
fare	tiền xe, tiền đò	A fare is an amount of money paid to use a bus, train, or taxi. Since he is a senior, my grandfather pays a low fare for the bus.	
former	trước đây, nguyên, cựu	Former describes something that used to be but is not any more. The hotel, a former castle, was built over 200 years ago.	
formula	công thức	A formula is a set mathematical way or method of solving a problem. I learned a new formula that may help us with our problem.	
found	thành lập, sáng lập	To found a company or organization means to start it. The pilgrims founded one of the first colonies in the United States.	
invest	đầu tư	To invest means to use money in a way that will bring a profit later. I invested money in a new building that should bring me a profit.	
loan	tiền vay	A loan is the act of lending something, usually money. I got a loan from the bank	
practical	thực hành (đối với lý thuyết)	If something is practical, it is useful in normal life. Learning English is practical, you can use it in many places.	
quarter	một phần tư	A quarter is 25 cents. He paid a quarter for the candy.	
salary	lương	A salary is how much money a person makes at his or her job. He got a new job with a better salary.	
scholarship	học bổng	A scholarship is money given to one so they can go to school. I got a scholarship to help me pay for university.	
temporary	tạm thời, nhất thời	If something is temporary, it exists for a short time. This car is only temporary, I'll get a new one soon.	
treasure	kho báu	A treasure is a collection of valuable things, especially jewels or gold. They became very rich when they found the buried treasure.	
urge	thúc, thúc giục	To urge someone is to try very hard to get them to do something. He urged them to believe his story.	
