arise	xuất hiện, nảy sinh, nổi lên	To arise is to happen. Difficulties arose with his computer because it was old.	
benefactor	người làm việc thiện	A benefactor is a person who gives money to help someone. The student's benefactor gave him money to spend on his studies.	
blacksmith	thợ rèn	A blacksmith is a person who makes things out of metal. The blacksmith pounded the piece o f metal until it was flat.	
charitableđộ lượng-When someone is charitable, they help people who are in need. My sister was charitable enough to help me buy my first house.	
chimney	ống khói	A chimney is a tall pipe used to carry smoke out of a building. The cat was on the roof sitting next to the chimney.	
compensate	bù; bù đắp; đền bù	To compensate is to pay someone for the time they spent doing something. Her boss compensated her for the extra work she did last week.	
encounter	gặp; đụng độ với	If you encounter something, you meet or come close to it. I encountered a sea turtle while I was swimming.	
exceed	vượt quá	To exceed is to be more than something. Since I exceeded my lim it, I decided to get rid o f my credit cards.	
forge	lò rèn	To forge is to make or produce, especially with difficulty. Stacy and Heather forged their friendship when they were teenagers.	
humble	khiêm tốn, nhún nhường	People who are humble do not believe that they are better than other people. Even though Bob is the smartest boy in his class, he is humble.	
ladder	cái thang	A ladder is an object that is used to climb up and down things. He used a ladder to climb to the top o f his tree house.	
modestkhiêm tốn, nhún nhường, nhã nhặn-If people are modest, they do not think that they are too important. Derek is very modest for someone who is so rich.	
occupy	chiếm; ở	To occupy a place is to live, work, or be there. Kevin and Alice occupied the chairs and had a long discussion.	
penny	nhiều và dễ kiếm	A penny is a coin worth one cent. U.S. President Abraham Lincoln is on the penny.	
preach	thuyết giáo; thuyết pháp	To preach is to talk about and promote a religious idea.Aaron often preached about living an honest life.	
prosper	thịnh vượng lên, phát đạt, phồn vinh lên	To prosper is to be successful or make a lot of money. Frank's new business finally prospered after many years o f hard work.	
province	tỉnh, (số ít) phạm vi, lĩnh vực	A province is a small area that is controlled by a country. Canada is divided into several different provinces.	
satisfaction	sự vừa ý, sự thỏa mãn	Satisfaction is a feeling you get when you do or receive something good.Brad was filled with satisfaction when he saw what was for dinner.	
sustain	nâng, đỡ, chống đỡ	To sustain something is to keep it going. Wind power is a clean way to sustain a city with energy.	
acquire	đạt được, thu được	To acquire something is to gain possession of it. Tina acquired a strange package yesterday.	
awkward	bất tiện, vụng về	If something is awkward, it is embarrassing and uncomfortable. After dropping his coffee cup, Robbie felt awkward.	
caretaker	người [được giao] trông nom (một ngôi nhà, một công trình kiến trúc)	A caretaker is a person who takes care of very young, old, or sick people. My grandmother's caretaker helps her get around the house.	
deceive	lừa dối	To deceive someone is to make them believe something that is not true. He tried to deceive his friends as they were playing a game.	
discourage	làm nản lòng	To discourage someone is to make them feel less excited about something. Mr. Perry discouraged the students from quitting school.	
fake	đồ giả	If something is fake, it is made to look real in order to trick people. The model was wearing fake eyelashes.	
hatred	lòng căm ghét	Hatred is a strong feeling of not liking someone or something. I have a hatred for the taste o f medicine.	
hut	túp lều	A hut is a house made of wood, grass, or mud that has only one ortwo rooms. We all went into the hut to sleep.	
inferior	thấp, hạ đẳng	If something is inferior, it is not as good as something else. Cars built a hundred years ago are inferior to ones built today.	
lodge	nhà ở cổng (công viên, tòa nhà lớn…) (để người gác cổng…ở)	A lodge is a house in the mountains, used by people who hunt or fish. During our ski trip, we stayed at a lodge.	
neglect	sao lãng, lơ là	To neglect someone or something is to not take care of it properly. William neglected his room, so it is a complete mess.	
newcomer	người mới đến	A newcomer is a person who has recently arrived at a place or a group. The students happily welcomed the newcomer to the school.	
offense	đội tấn công	An offense is behavior that is wrong or breaks a law. Stealing a car is a very serious offense.	
overlook	nhìn [từ vị trí cao] xuống; trông xuống	To overlook something is to not notice it, or to not realize that it is important. Brenda overlooked the last step and had a bad fall.	
repay	trả lại, hoàn lại (tiền)	To repay is to pay back or to reward someone or something. She repaid her friend for all o f his hard work with a small gift.	
ridiculous	nực cười	If something is ridiculous, it is silly or strange. Steve looked ridiculous with those huge blue sunglasses.	
satisfactory	vừa ý, thỏa đáng, tốt	If something is satisfactory, it is good enough. Mina often received satisfactory grades since she studied so hard.	
shepherd	người chăn cừu	A shepherd is a person who protects and cares for sheep. The shepherd moved the sheep to another field.	
venture	cuộc kinh doanh mạo hiểm	To venture is to go to a place that may be dangerous. Even though it was dangerous, they ventured up the mountain.	
wheat	lúa mì (cây, hạt)	Wheat is a plant which makes grain. Wheat grain is used to make bread. The field o f golden wheat was ready to be harvested.	
alley	lối đi, ngõ	An alley is a narrow read behind houses or buildings The alley behind my house looks dirty	
ax	cái rìu	An ax is a tool used to cut wood. She used an ax to cut some wood for the fire.	
bunch	chùm bó, cụm, buồng	A bunch is a group of the same things.She was hungry, so she ate the entire bunch o f grapes.	
chore	việc vặt hàng ngày	A chore is a job that you have to do but don't like. It's Nikki's chore to do the dishes every Tuesday and Wednesday night.	
decent	thích hợp, tử tế	When something is decent, it is OK or good enough. Eric did a decent job painting the fence.	
disgrace	sự nhục nhã, sự ô nhục	Disgrace is a feeling of shame. He felt a sense o f disgrace after failing his big exam.	
elbow	khuỷu tay	The elbow is the middle part of a person's arm that lets you bend it.She pointed to her elbow to show me where she hurt herself.	
grateful	biết ơn	When you are grateful for something, you are happy that it happened. The girls were grateful to have a chance to spend time with their grandfather.	
irritate	làm phát cáu	To irritate means to annoy someone. She was irritated when her brother told her that he had lost her camera.	
kid	(khẩu ngữ) đứa trẻ	To kid is to make a joke to make someone believe something which is not true. I am not really mad. I was kidding when I said I was angry.	
loose	lỏng, chùng; lung lay, long ra	When something is loose, it is not held in place well. The bolt was loose, so I tightened it with the wrench.	
offend	(chủ yếu dùng ở dạng bị động) xúc phạm, làm mếch lòng	To offend someone means to make them angry or upset. They were both offended by what they had said to each other.	
overnight	qua đêm	When something happens overnight, it happens during the night. The campers stayed in the tent overnight.	
persist	khăng khăng, cố chấp	To persist means to keep doing something even when it is hard. Even though the lesson was difficult, he persisted until he understood.	
pine	(cách viết khác pine tree) cây thông	A pine is a type of tree that is tall and thin. There were many beautiful pine trees in the forest.	
scar	vết sẹo, sẹo	A scar is a mark on the skin after a wound heals. The monster had horrible scars on his cheek and forehead.	
sensation	cảm giác	A sensation is a feeling a person gets from their senses. Mom got a painful sensation in her head from the loud noise.	
sled	xe trượt tuyết	A sled is a small vehicle that you use on snow. Marvin likes to ride his sled down the hill in winter.	
tease	chòng ghẹo, trêu chọc	To tease someone means to laugh at or make fun of them.Jake teased Charlie because he was the new student.	
valentine	ngày lễ thánh Valentine	A valentine is someone you love or admire with great affection. Harry wanted Molly to be his valentine.	
bloom	hoa, bông (của cây trồng lấy hoa)	When a plant blooms, it makes flowers. Roses look so pretty when they bloom.	
compact	chắc, chặt	If something is compact, it is smaller than normal. A laptop computer is much more compact than a desktop model.	
curl	món tóc quăn, lọn tóc quăn	A curl is a small piece of something with a round shape. The colorful ribbons were bent into curls.	
decay	[làm cho] rữa; làm cho sâu (răng), làm cho mục (gỗ)	To decay is to be destroyed naturally. The old wooden house was slowly decaying.	
dessert	món tráng miệng	Dessert is a sweet food that you eat after a meal. Kayla wants ice cream for dessert.	
dip	nhúng, dìm	To dip something is to put part of it into a liquid for a short time. Laurel dipped her strawberry into the chocolate.	
distant	xa	If something is distant, it is far away.Michael could barely see the distant island.	
eclipse	thiên thực (nhật thực, nguyệt thực)	An eclipse is an occasion when the moon moves in front of the sun. A complete eclipse o f the sun is a very rare occurrence.	
fairy	tiên, tiên nữ	A fairy is a small, magic creature with wings. There are usually fairies in fantasy stories.	
grace	vẻ duyên dáng, vẻ yểu điệu	Grace is a quality of moving in a smooth, relaxed and attractive way. The ballerina danced with grace.	
leisure	thì giờ rãnh rỗi	Leisure is time when you do not have to do work. Eve likes to listen to music in her leisure time.	
mankind	loài người, nhân loại	Mankind is all of the world's people. All o f mankind has to work to make this a better world.	
passion	xúc cảm mãnh liệt (như căm thù, yêu, giận…)	Passion is a very strong feeling of wanting to do something. She had a passion for dancing.	
pillow	cái gối	A pillow is something that you put your head on when you sleep. When I travel, I usually take along my favorite pillow.	
pulse	mạch đập; mạch	A pulse is the beat of the heart. The doctor checked the patient's pulse by feeling his wrist.	
refresh	làm cho khỏe khoắn; làm tỉnh người	To refresh someone is to make them feel less hot or tired. The baby was refreshed after taking a cool bath.	
sneeze	sự hắt hơi; cái hắt hơi	To sneeze is to suddenly blow air out of your nose and mouth. He sneezed after smelling the flower.	
spice	gia vị	A spice is a flavor for food and drinks. Two common spices found in many homes are salt and pepper.	
whistle	tiếng huýt gió	To whistle is to make a sound by putting your lips together and blowing.. Ashe was listening to music, Daryl whistled.	
wool	lông len (của cừu, dê…)	Wool is the hair that a sheep has. Grandma wants to use the blue wool to knit me a sweater.	
acquaint	làm quen	To acquaint is to get to know something or someone. Nancy acquainted herself with the new computer.	
cemetery	nghĩa trang	A cemetery is where people are buried when they die. Some people are scared o f cemeteries.	
curse	nguyền rủa	To curse someone or something is to hope that bad things happen to them. The witch cursed the village.	
disguise	cải trang	A disguise is something you wear so people cannot tell who you are. Everyone knew that it was Dad in the Santa disguise.	
fancy	sức tưởng tượng	If something is fancy, it is nicer than normal. Their table was all set for a fancy dinner.	
flashlight	ánh đèn nháy	A flashlight is a small electric light that you carry in your hand. We took a flashlight when we went camping.	
hood	mũ trùm đầu (ở áo khoác)	A hood is part of a coat that goes over your head. She put on her hood to keep her head warm.	
inhabitant	cư dân, vật cư trú	An inhabitant is a person who lives in a certain place. The number o f inhabitants in the countryside is increasing.	
nourish	nuôi; nuôi dưỡng (người, vật, cây)	To nourish something is to give it food that it needs to live. A good mother will nourish her baby every day.	
pirate	cướp biển, hải tặc	A pirate is a sailor who steals things from other boats. Pirates are very scary characters.	
publication	sự xuất bản; tài liệu xất bản	A publication is something printed, like a newspaper or book. She's been a subscriber to that publication for over ten years.	
riddle	điều khó hiểu như đố người khác đoán được	A riddle is a question that is difficult to answer but meant to be funny. I could not answer Wendy's riddle, but it made me laugh.	
rot	[làm] mục, [làm] rữa	When something rots, it slowly gets softer and is destroyed. The old log began to rot in the forest.	
scare	(cách viết khác khẩu ngữ scarify) làm hoảng sợ	To scare means to cause one to feel frightened. I was scared by the sight o f the monster.	
shortly	không lâu, sớm, chẳng bao lâu	If something will happen shortly, it will happen very soon. My workday will end shortly.	
skeleton	bộ xương	A skeleton is the bones of a body. There is a skeleton in the science classroom.	
spoil	làm hỏng	If something spoils, it turns bad or rots. We left the fruit out too long, and it spoiled.	
starve	bỏ đói, bị đói, [làm] chết đói	If a person starves, they do not get enough to eat and sometimes die. During the war, many people starved.	
thrill	sự rộn ràng, sự rạo rực, sự hồi hộp	A thrill is an exciting feeling. The boys enjoy the th rill o f surfing a big wave.	
wicked	xấu, tệ, đồi bại, độc ác, tội lỗi	If something is wicked, it is very bad or evil. My boss is a very wicked man.	
alert	cảnh giác, tỉnh táo	To alert someone is to tell or warn them about something. The fire alarm alerted us that there was a problem.	
broadcast	phát thanh; truyền hình	A broadcast is a television or radio show. We watched the broadcast o f the local news on 7V.	
bulletin	thông báo, thông cáo	A bulletin is a news report that talks about very recent and important events. There was a live bulletin reporting on the economy o f the city.	
bump	va, đụng	A bump is a small raised area on a surface. The monkey got a bump on his head because he was hit by a rock.	
chop	(chủ yếu dùng ở dạng bị động) ngưng hoạt động; giảm rất nhiều	To chop something means to cut it into pieces with a tool. Mom chopped some vegetables to put into the stew.	
closet	(từ Mỹ) tủ chứa đồ; phòng chứa đồ	A closet is a small room used to store things. Marie has many clothes inside o f her closet.	
console	an ủi, bàn điều khiển	To console someone who is sad means to make them comforted. When my dog ran away, my dad consoled me.	
district	quận, huyện, khu; vùng	A district is a small part of a city, county, state, or country. I live in a residential district o f Seattle, Washington.	
drawer	ngăn kéo	A drawer is a small part in furniture that is used to store things. I put my clothes into the empty drawers.	
endure	chịu, chịu đựng	To endure something tough means to do or go through it. She had to endure her husband shouting all day long.	
execute	thực hiện, thi hành	To execute someone means to kill them as a legal punishment. Some people are executed for serious crimes.	
grasp	túm lấy; ngoạm lấy, chộp lấy	To grasp something means to hold it. He grasped the bag o f money tightly.	
rear	phía sau	When something is in the rear of something, it is in the back.The man loaded the rear o f his truck with boxes.	
senator	Thượng nghị sĩ	A senator is someone who makes laws for a state. The young senator promised to make laws that would help the people.	
skull	sọ	A skull is the hard part of your head. Your brain is inside of it. The brain is protected by the skull.	
stir	khuấy, quấy	To stir something means to mix it using something small, like a spoon. Mom stirred the batter until it was smooth.	
tap	vòi nước	To tap something is to hit it lightly. He tapped the keys o f the keyboard to write a short word.	
tremendous	rất lớn	When something is tremendous, it is very large. The Earth's oceans are filled with a tremendous amount o f water.	
underneath	dưới	When something is underneath something else, it is below or lower than it. The roots o f a tree are located underneath the ground.	
worm	giun; sâu	A worm is a small animal with a long, thin body. Worms are often used to help catch fish.	
abandon	bỏ, từ bỏ, ruồng bỏ	To abandon something is to leave it forever or for a long time. The old room had been abandoned years before.	
ambitious	có nhiều tham vọng, có nhiều hoài bão	If someone is ambitious, they want to be rich or successful. Kendra had to be ambitious to get into medical school.	
bark	vỏ cây	When a dog barks, it makes a short, loud noise. The dog barked loudly and frighteningly.	
bay	vịnh	A bay is an area near the ocean where the land goes inward. The Golden Gate Bridge crosses San Francisco Bay.	
brilliant	chói lọi, rực rỡ	If someone is brilliant, they are very smart. My younger sister is brilliant for someone her age.	
chin	cằm	Your chin is the hard part at the bottom of your face. Luke pointed to the hair on his chin.	
complaint	sự kêu ca, sự than phiền	A complaint is something you say to tell people that you don't like something Mom said she didn't want to hear my brother's complaints.	
deaf	điếc	When someone is deaf, they cannot hear. Susan was born deaf.	
enthusiastic	đầy nhiệt tình	To be enthusiastic about something is to be excited by or interested in it. The man was enthusiastic about his job.	
expedition	cuộc viễn chinh; đoàn viễn chinh	An expedition is a long trip, usually to a place very far away. They got into their spaceship to begin their expedition.	
horizon	tầm nhìn, tầm hiểu biết, phạm vi kiến thức	The horizon is where the sky looks like it meets the ground. The sun clipped below the horizon.	
loyal	trung thành	To be loyal to something or someone is to agree to always help them. The three friends are very loyal to each other	
mayor	thị trưởng	The mayor is the person in charge of a city. The mayor o f my hometown is quite a powerful speaker.	
mutual	lẫn nhau, qua lại, hỗ tương	If something is mutual, it is felt in the same way by two or more people. Robert likes Sarah. The feeling is mutual.	
overweight	quá trọng lượng (quy định)	If someone is overweight, they are very fat. Roger eats too much, so now he's overweight.	
refuge	nơi trốn tránh, nơi ẩn náu; nơi nương náu	A refuge is a place where you go to be safe. When it started to rain, she found refuge in the house.	
restore	trả lại, hoàn lại	To restore something is to put it back the way it was. Victor restored the old car.	
rub	cọ, cà, chà, xoa	To rub something is to push on it and move your hand back and forth. Mom's feet were sore, so she rubbed them.	
senses	giác quan	Your senses are how you see, taste, hear, feel and smell. It would be hard to live without your five senses.	
veterinarian	bác sĩ thú y	A veterinarian is a doctor that takes care of animals. Wanda became a veterinarian because she loves dogs.	
anniversary	ngày kỷ niệm [hằng năm]; lễ kỷ niệm [hằng năm]	An anniversary is a day that celebrates something from the past. My parents went out to eat for their wedding anniversary.	
arithmetic	số học	Arithmetic is math. I like to study arithm etic at school.	
ashamed	xấu hổ, hổ thẹn; ngượng	To be ashamed is to feel upset because you did something wrong or bad. He was ashamed when he found out that I knew about his past.	
burst	nổ tung, vỡ tung; làm nổ tung, làm bật tung	To burst is to suddenly break open or apart. The bomb burst over the city.	
carpenter	thợ mộc	A carpenter is a person who builds things with wood. We hired a carpenter to make a cupboard.	
coal	than đá	Coal is a hard black rock that you burn for heat. Many power stations burn coal to produce energy.	
couch	trường kỷ	A couch is a long, soft seat that many people can sit on. Kim and M artin's new couch was very expensive.	
drip	chảy thành giọt	When a liquid drips, just a little bit falls at a time. I heard water dripping from the faucet.	
elegant	thanh lịch, tao nhã	If something is elegant, it is very fancy and pleasing. In Japan, women wear elegant kimonos on special occasions.	
fabric	hàng vải, cơ cấu	Fabric is cloth used to make clothes, furniture, etc. The towels were made from a soft fabric.	
highlands	ở miền núi cao	The highlands are high areas of land, usually with mountains. The man had a small home in the highlands.	
ivory	ngà (voi)	Ivory is a white, hard substance that comes from elephants. The elephant's long ivory tusks looked very impressive.	
mill	cối xay, máy xay; nhà máy xay	A mill is a building where flour is made. The farmer took his wheat to the m ill to make it into flour.	
needle	kim (để may, để đan, để tiêm, để chạy đĩa máy hát, ở mặt la bàn…)	A needle is a small, sharp piece of metal that you use to make or fix clothes. I used a needle to fix the hole in my pants.	
polish	[thuộc] Ba Lan	To polish something is to rub it in order to make it shiny. Mark spent all morning polishing his shoes for the wedding.	
sew	may, khâu	To sew means to put pieces of cloth together using string. I learned to sew when I was a little girl.	
shed	lán, nhà kho (để dụng cụ…)	A shed is a small building where you store things like tools.We have a small shed in the backyard for storage.	
thread	chỉ, sợi	A thread is a thin piece of string. I have many different colors o f thread at home.	
trim	ngăn nắp, gọn gàng	To trim something is to cut it a little bit. I had my hair trimmed this afternoon	
upwards	đi lên, hướng lên, lên	If something goes upwards, it moves vertically higher. The kite went upwards further and further.	
ail	ốm yếu, ốm đau	To ail a person or group is to cause difficulty or pain. My brother went to the doctor to see what was ailing him.	
ally	liên kết, liên minh	An ally is someone who agrees to help or support you. I was happy to find many allies who shared the same opinion as me.	
boast	khoác lác	To boast is to talk about how good you are. We all became tired o f listening to him boast about him self all day.	
bounce	nẩy	To bounce is to move something up and away from a surface after hitting it. Owen bounced the ball on the ground.	
bully	kẻ hay bắt nạt	A bully is a person who is mean to others. The two bullies always picked on the smaller, weaker kids.	
carbohydrate	hydrat cacbon	Carbohydrates are substances in foods like bread that give you energy. Carbohydrates like rice are a good source o f energy for active people.	
crawl	bò, trườn	To crawl is to move slowly on your hands and knees.The baby crawled across the floor	
defeat	đánh bại	To defeat someone is to beat them in a game or battle. The champion defeated the challenger in the boxing match.	
dial	mặt đồng hồ (đồng hồ chỉ giờ, đồng hồ đo đếm điện…)	A dial is the front of a clock. I looked at the dial to see what time it was.	
dominant	át, trội	When someone or something is dominant, they are strongerthan others. The gorilla is one o f the dom inant animals in the jungle.	
mercy	lòng nhân từ, từ tâm	If you show mercy, you choose not to punish or harm someone. He asked his boss for mercy and to not fire him.	
nod	gật đầu; hất đầu ra hiệu; cúi đầu (chào)	To nod is to move your head up and down. I nodded my head as I listened to the song.	
opponent	đối thủ, địch thủ	An opponent is someone who fights against you. On the field, our opponents were too good for us.	
quarrel	sự cãi nhau	To quarrel is to argue or fight. Billy quarreled with his wife about buying a new house.	
rival	kẻ tình địch, kẻ cạnh tranh; đối thủ	A rival is someone that is trying to keep you from getting what you want. The three rivals were all competing for the same job.	
sore	đau	When a part of your body is sore, it hurts. After lifting the heavy box, Mona's back was sore.	
sting	ngòi (ong…), vòi (muỗi…)	To sting is to cause pain by pushing a sharp part into the skin. The needle stung my arm and made me say, " Ouch!"	
strain	kép căng, căng	To strain is to try very hard. Casey strained to lift the heavy box.	
torture	sự tra tấn	Torture is something that causes you physical or mental pain. Greg thought that writing the essay was torture.	
wrestle	đấu vật, vật nhau	To wrestle is to play a game where you try to push someone to the floor. My dad loved to wrestle when he was in high school.	
absence	sự vắng mặt	Absence is the state of something being away. There is an absence o f sand in the hourglass.	
aloud	to (nói, gọi …)	If you say something aloud, you say it so that others can hear you. My father often reads stories aloud to me and my sister.	
bald	hói, trụi	If someone is bald, they have no hair. My oldest brother is bald.	
blanket	mền, chăn	A blanket is a piece of cloth that you use to keep warm or to sit upon. I laid a blanket on the ground so that we could have a picnic.	
creep	bò, trườn	To creep is to move quietly and slowly. The cat slowly crept down the tree.	
divorce	sự ly hôn	Divorce is an event in which a marriage is ended. Divorce rates have increased in the past twenty years.	
imitate	bắt chước	To imitate someone is to do exactly what they do. He im itated his favorite superhero by putting on a costume.	
infant	trẻ nhỏ	An infant is a baby. The infant cried all night.	
kidnap	bắt cóc	To kidnap someone is to take them illegally. She was terrified to find out her son was kidnapped.	
nap	giấc ngủ chợp (thường là vào ban ngày)	A nap is a short sleep, usually during the day. I took a short nap because I stayed up late last night.	
nowhere	không nơi nào, không ở đâu	You use nowhere to say that a place or thing does not exist. Unfortunately, water was nowhere to be found.	
pat	bằng sáng chế số	To pat something is to hit it softly with your hand. I patted some lotion onto my face.	
relief	sự giảm nhẹ, sự bớt đi	Relief is a feeling you get when something bad or challenging ends. I felt a sense o f relief when I heard the good news.	
reproduce	sao lại, in sao, thể hiện lại	To reproduce is to make something exactly how someone else did it. The children tried to reproduce their house using toy blocks.	
rhyme	vần (thơ)	To rhyme is to have the same sounds at the end of a word. Humpty Dumpty is an old rhyme that children learn in school.	
suck	mút, hút, bú	To suck is to put something in your mouth and try to get flavor out of it. The baby sucked m ilk from her bottle.	
urgent	cần kíp, khẩn cấp, khẩn, gấp	If something is urgent, it is important and needs to be done now. He had to leave now, it was urgent.	
vanish	biến mất; tan biến	To vanish is to go away suddenly. All the passengers vanished from the train station.	
wagon	xe ngựa; xe bò	A wagon is a cart you use to carry heavy things.He used his wagon to carry some o f his gifts.	
wrinkle	thường số nhiều) nếp nhăn	A wrinkle is a line on a person's face that happens as they get old. My grandfather has some wrinkles on his face.	
abnormal	khác thường, dị thường 	If something is abnormal, it is strange or not normal. Her idea o f art is a bit too abnormal for me.	
bamboo	cây tre	Bamboo is a hard plant with thin branches and leaves. Outside his home, there is a lot o f bamboo.	
blossom	hoa (của cây ăn quả, cây bụi)	A blossom is a flower or group of flowers.There were colorful blossoms in the yard.	
compass	la bàn	A compass is a device used to tell what direction one is going. A compass is an im portant tool to have when you are traveling.	
dialect	phương ngữ	A dialect is a regional variety of language showing where you are from. People from the U.K. have a different dialect o f English from those in the U.K	
dishonest	bất lương	If someone is dishonest, they do not tell the truth. She was being dishonest when she copied the answers from his test.	
dwarf	người lùn; con vật lùn	A dwarf is a creature from stories that often looks like a short, hairy man. The dw arf had a pleasant look on his face.	
ecosystem	hệ sinh thái	An ecosystem is a group of plants and animals in an area. The river's ecosystem not only includes fish but other insects and plants too	
fatal	[làm] chết người	If something is fatal, it causes death. They passed away in a fatal car crash.	
impatient	thiếu kiên nhẫn, nôn nóng	If someone is impatient, they are not able to wait for things. Bob was so im patient that he could barely wait for the light to turn green.	
leaf	lá cây, lá (vàng…)	A leaf is the flat green thing on trees or bushes. In the fall, the leaves on the trees change colors.	
manuscript	bản viết tay	A manuscript is an old book or paper written by hand. The manuscript was written over 150 years ago.	
marsh	đầm lầy	A marsh is a type of wet land covered with grasses and short plants. The marsh looked so lovely against the mountains.	
patience	tính kiên nhẫn; tính nhẫn nại	Patience is the ability to wait for something without becoming upset. Sue's patience was rewarded by catching her very first fish.	
perfume	hương thơm	Perfume is a good-smelling liquid that girls wear. When she wore her perfume, everyone said she smelled great.	
pond	cái áo	A pond is a very small area of water. The ducks swam in the pond.	
proverb	tục ngữ, cách ngôn	A proverb is a short saying that tells you something important. The proverb "egg on your face" means you've done something embarrassing.	
pursuit	(of something) sự theo đuổi	A pursuit is a chase. The dinosaur was in pursuit of the caveman.	
recite	đọc thuộc lòng	To recite something means to repeat or say aloud in front of a group. Katie recited the Pledge o f Allegiance in class.	
wilderness	vùng hoang dã; hoang mạc	A wilderness is an area where no people live. If you are not careful, you can get lost in the wilderness.	
anticipate	lường trước, dự tính	To anticipate something is to think that it will happen. Carrie anticipated the arrival o f her baby.	
barrel	thùng (đáy tròn, thành cao phình ra ở giữa)	A barrel is a round thing that you can keep liquids in. There was an empty barrel outside the house.	
beam	xà nhà	A beam is a heavy bar. Modern skyscrapers are made with several beams.	
casual	(chủ yếu thuộc ngữ) tình cờ, ngẫu nhiên	If something is casual, it is relaxed or simple. You can wear casual clothes to the party like jeans.	
caution	sự thận trọng, sự cẩn thận	Caution is care and attention in order to avoid danger. Please use the power saw with caution. It is very dangerous.	
contrary	trái, ngược, nghịch	If something is contrary to something else, it is the opposite. It isn't warm outside at all. On the contrary, it is quite cold.	
deliberate	có tính toán, cố ý, chủ tâm	If you are deliberate, you do something on purpose. Bernie made a deliberate attempt to injure Andy.	
dissolve	làm tan, hòa tan, tan	To dissolve something is to mix it into a liquid and disappear. I dissolved the p ill in a glass o f water.	
explode	[làm] nổ	When something explodes, it blows up. My new radio exploded when I plugged it in.	
fasten	đóng chặt, cài chặt	To fasten something is to close it or put it in the correct place. Elizabeth fastened her seat belt.	
germ	mầm, mống	A germ is something that makes you sick. Germs are on everything that you touch.	
kit	quân trang	A kit is a set of all the things needed to do something. Is there a first aid kit in your office?	
puff	hơi thở phù ra; luồng gió thổi phụt ra; tiếng thổi phù	A puff is a little bit of smoke or steam. A p u ff o f smoke came from the burnt match.	
rag	giẻ rách; giẻ	A rag is a small towel. Please use a rag to clean the dust o ff the table.	
scatter	chạy tản ra; đuổi chạy tản ra	To scatter something is to make it go in many places. I accidentally scattered all o f my pills	
scent	mùi hương	A scent is a smell. Julie enjoyed the scent o f the flowers.	
steel	thép	Steel is a shiny gray metal. The new apartment building was made with steel.	
swift	nhanh	If something is swift, it is fast. The sw ift horse easily jum ped over the hurdle.	
toss	quăng, ném, hất	If you toss something, you throw it softly. He tossed a coin into the air.	
triumph	cuộc chiến thắng lớn; cuộc thắng lợi lớn	Triumph is what you feel when you win or finish something. He raised the award in trium ph at the end o f his speech.	
aboard	trên tàu thủy, trên xe lửa	When someone is aboard a ship or plane, they are on or in it. They climbed aboard the kayak and paddled through the river.	
bitter	đắng	When a person is bitter, they are upset with someone or a situation. He was extremely bitter when his computer crashed.	
bullet	đạn	A bullet is a small metal object that is shot out of guns. Bullets come in different sizes for different guns.	
devil	ma, quỷ	The devil is a powerful evil spirit in some religions. The church promised protection from the devil.	
drift	sự trôi giạt, sự bị cuốn đi	To drift means to be moved slowly by wind or water. The large chunk o f ice drifted in the water.	
enforce	buộc thi hành	To enforce means to make a person follow a rule. Police enforce traffic laws to keep everyone safe.	
fountain	vòi nước, vòi phun 	A fountain is a source of water made by people. There was a beautiful fountain in the middle o f the park.	
harbor	hải cảng	A harbor is an area of water along a shore where boats land. There were a few small boats in the harbor.	
inhabit	ở, sống ở	To inhabit means to live in a certain place. No one inhabits the ancient city.	
march	tháng ba	To march means to walk at a steady pace together with others. The soldiers marched in straight rows.	
millionaire	nhà triệu phú	A millionaire is a person who has at least a million dollars. He became a m illionaire because he was smart with his money.	
port	cảng	A port is a place where ships stop to load and unload things. The ship was being loaded with materials at the port.	
sheriff	quận trưởng; thị trưởng	A sheriff is a police officer who is in charge of a large area. It was the sheriff's job to make the city safe.	
startle	làm hoảng hốt, làm nhảy chồm	To startle means to scare someone suddenly. The loud crash startled the sleeping woman.	
sweat	mồ hôi	To sweat means to lose liquid from the body through the skin. Whenever I workout, I sweat quite a bit.	
trigger	cò súng	A trigger is the part of the gun that a person pulls to make it fire. The man had his finger on the trigger o f the gun.	
unify	thống nhất; hợp nhất	To unify means to bring people or things together. With their good deeds, the children tried to unify the world.	
vessel	thuyền lớn, tàu	A vessel is a large ship or boat. We toured the area aboard a luxury vessel.	
voyage	cuộc hành trình dài	A voyage is a long journey made on a boat or an aircraft. The astronauts took o ff on a long voyage to the moon.	
worship	sự thờ cúng; lễ thờ cúng	To worship means to like and honor a person, thing, or religious figure. Many people around the world worship in a church.	
apprentice	người học việc, người học nghề	An apprentice is a person who learns how to do a job from a skilled person. Mark is an apprentice chef at the restaurant.	
assure	đóan chắc, cam đoan	To assure someone is to tell them something is true to make them less worried He assured the boss that the building would be done on time.	
bandage	băng (để băng vết thương...)	A bandage is a piece of cloth used to stop bleeding. If you cut yourself, please get a bandage from the first-aid kit.	
bleed	chảy máu, mất máu	To bleed is to lose blood. If you are not careful, you will cut your finger and bleed.	
bond	khế ước, giao kèo	To bond with someone is to become friends with them. The women bonded after several hours o f conversation.	
chef	đầu bếp; bếp trưởng ở cửa hàng ăn	A chef is a person who cooks in a restaurant. Tom is a chef at the restaurant near my house.	
crown	mũ miện; ngôi vua	A crown is the hat worn by a king or queen. The crown is made o f gold.	
departure	sự ra đi, sự khởi hành	A departure is the act of leaving a place. They were excited about their departure back home.	
diligent	chuyên cần, cần cù	If someone is diligent, they work hard and are careful. Craig has always been a very diligent person at work.	
emperor	hoàng đế	An emperor is the leader of a group of countries. The emperor Julius Caesar was in control o f ancient Rome.	
fiber	(sinh vật học) sợi, thớ	Fiber is a thread of a substance used to make clothes or rope. The mat was made from tiny fibers.	
horrible	khủng khiếp	If something is horrible, it is very bad. The assignment was horrible. I hated it.	
impolite	vô lễ	If someone is impolite, they are rude. Roger is im polite to everyone he meets.	
kneel	[+ down] quỳ gối	To kneel is to put one or both knees on the ground. Daryl got down on one knee and asked Nina to marry him.	
luxury	sự sang trọng, sự xa hoa	A luxury is an expensive thing that you do not need. We stayed at a luxury resort for our honeymoon.	
massive	đồ sộ, khổng lồ; rất lớn	If something is massive, it is very big. The wheels on his truck were massive.	
panic	sự hoảng sợ, sự hốt hoảng	To panic is to feel so nervous or afraid that you cannot think clearly. Everyone panicked when the house caught on fire.	
priority	vị trí hàng đầu	A priority is something that is more important than other things. My priority is to get good grades in school.	
robe	(thường số nhiều) áo choàng (của thẩm phán, thầy tu…)	A robe is a long, loose piece of clothing. Many people wear robes in the morning.	
scold	rầy la, mắng mỏ, mắng (ai, về việc gì)	To scold means to criticize one angrily because they have done wrong. Jesse was scolded by the teacher for not paying attention.	
affair	công việc	An affair is an event or a thing that happened. My wife and I attended a formal affair over the weekend.	
assembly	cuộc họp	An assembly is a group that is together for the same reason. The students had an assembly to talk about their interests.	
bless	cầu Chúa ban phúc cho	To bless is to ask God for protection or help. The angel blessed the newborn baby to keep it safe.	
cereal	ngũ cốc	Cereal is a food that you mix with milk and eat for breakfast. Cereal is a fast and common breakfast food enjoyed in the U.S.	
cheerful	vui, phấn khời, hớn hở, tươi cười	If someone is cheerful, they are happy or feel good. The children were cheerful because they didn't have to go to school.	
diameter	đường kính	The diameter of a round thing is the length across its center. The diameter o f the tree was about 22 centimeters.	
exploit	kỳ công, kỳ tích	To exploit something is to use it for greedy reasons rather than good reason! The company exploits their workers and makes them stay 12 hours a doy.|	
famine	nạn đói kém	A famine is a long time with little or no food. The farmers couldn't grow any food on the dry soil, so there wasafamm	
harvest	việc thu hoạch; việc gặt	A harvest is the act of collecting food from farming. They had a lot o f wheat from the last harvest.	
merry	vui, vui vẻ	If someone is merry, they are very happy. They felt merry because the weather was great.	
nut	(thực vật) quả hạch	A nut is a hard seed or fruit that comes from some trees and bushes. To eat a nut, first you have to crack its shell.	
pardon	sự tha thứ; sự thứ lỗi	To pardon is a way to ask someone to repeat what was said before. Pardon me teacher, but could you repeat what you just said?	
pharaoh	vua Ai cập	A pharaoh was a king in ancient Egypt. The pharaohs ruled Egypt for thousands o f years.	
ripe	chín, tới độ	When a fruit is ripe, it is ready to be eaten. The cherries were nice and ripe.	
roast	quay; nước	To roast something is to cook it in an oven or over a fire. Mom roasted a turkey for the holiday dinner.	
routine	lề thói đã quen; nếp cũ	A routine is a way of doing things that is the same every time. My father's daily routine includes shaving right before breakfast.	
scheme	kế hoạch	A scheme is a plan or design. Mickey and Minnie came up with a scheme to solve the problem.	
slim	mảnh mai, thon thả	If something or someone is slim, they are thin. Look at my new cell phone. It's very slim.	
stove	cái lò	A stove is a device used to cook food. Our new stove helps us to cook food much faster than before.	
theft	sự trộm cắp	A theft is a criminal act that involves someone stealing something. The theft o f his TV took place when he was at work.	
adolescent	tuổi thiếu niên	An adolescent is a young person or a teenager. The adolescent was excited about getting a skateboard for his birthday.	
aptitude	khiếu; khả năng	Aptitude is a natural ability or skill. He has a natural aptitude for water skiing.	
compliment	lời khen, lời khen ngợi	To compliment is to say a nice thing about someone or something. Her co-worker complimented her for doing a good job.	
hinder	cản trở	To hinder is to keep someone or something from doing something. All the traffic hindered me from getting to work on time.	
journalism	nghề làm báo	Journalism is the work of collecting the news to put in newspapers or on TV. Before becoming a teacher, she worked in journalism.	
jury	bồi thẩm đoàn	A jury is a group of people that listen to a trial and say if someone is guilty. The jury listened closely to the attorney before they made their decision. I	
justice	sự công bằng	Justice is fairness in the way that you treat other people.People turn to the court system when they are seeking justice.	
liberty	sự tự do	Liberty is freedom to do what you want. To many people, the Statue o f Liberty is a symbol o f freedom.	
literary	[thuộc] văn chương, [thuộc] văn học	If someone or something is literary, it is involved with literature in some way He worked hard to create a successful literary career.	
pharmacy	dược khoa	A pharmacy is a place where medicine is sold. My mother sells medicine to people at the pharmacy.	
pill	(dược phẩm) viên tròn	A pill is a small object that has medicine inside. She took a p ill for her headache.	
presume	cho là [đúng], cầm chắc là; coi là	To presume is to believe something is true without being certain. Since he raised his hand, the teacher presumed he knew the answer.	
privacy	sự sống một mình không bị ai quấy rầy, sự cách biệt	To have privacy is to be away from other people. Please hang the sign on the door so we can have some privacy.	
punishment	sự trừng phạt, sự trừng trị	A punishment is something that one must endure for any wrongdoing. He was given a punishment for being rude to the teacher.	
sensible	biết điều; hợp lý	If someone is sensible, they make good decisions. It was sensible for her to save some money each month.	
slice	lát	A slice is a piece from something larger, such as a cake. The g irl enjoyed a slice o f cake at her birthday party.	
sorrow	sự buồn rầu, sự buồn phiền	Sorrow is a very sad feeling. The g irl felt sorrow after her best friend moved away.	
straw	rơm	A straw is a thin tube that is used to suck liquid into the mouth. I drank the orange juice through a straw.	
swell	[làm] sưng lên	To swell is to become larger and rounder. My sister's stomach began to swell after she got pregnant.	
tidy	sạch sẽ, gọn gàng	When something is tidy, it is clean and in order. Leon has always been a very tidy boy.	
affection	sự yêu mến; lòng thương yêu	Affection is a feeling of liking someone or something.Amanda has a lot o f affection for her little sister Sarah.	
agency	đại lý, chi nhánh	An agency is a business or service set up to act for others. I went to a travel agency to help me arrange a flig h t home.	
ash	tần bì (cây, gỗ)	Ash is the grey or black powder created when something is burned. The end o f his cigar was full o f ashes.	
confine	giam giữ, nhốt	To confine something is to keep it in one place. The elephant is confined to a cage in the zoo.	
dismiss	sa thải, thải hồi	To dismiss something is to say it is not important. He quickly dismissed my idea about a new project.	
erupt	phun trào (nói về núi lửa)	To erupt is for a volcano or something to shoot a hot substance. The volcano erupted for the first time in ten years.	
fate	định mệnh	Fate is a power that causes some things to happen. Some people believe that a person's hand can tell their fate.	
lava	dung nham	Lava is the hot substance made of melted rock that shoots from volcanoes. The red hot lava poured from the volcano.	
miserable	khốn khổ	If someone is miserable, they are very unhappy. He was miserable after his dog died.	
navigate	định vị	To navigate something is to control the way it moves or goes. She navigated the ship across the ocean.	
originate	bắt nguồn từ, khởi đầu từ	To originate somewhere is to start there. The idea o f democracy originated in Ancient Greece.	
remainder	phần còn lại, số còn lại	The remainder of something is what is left. He took a bite o f the apple, then gave me the remainder o f it.	
retrieve	lấy lại, tìm lại được	To retrieve something is to find it and get it back. She retrieved her mail from the mail box.	
shallow	nông, cạn, không sâu	If something is shallow, it is not deep. The kids were playing in the shallow water.	
slope	mặt nghiêm	A slope is ground that is not flat. The slope to the top o f the mountain was very steep.	
span	nhịp (cầu…), khoảng thời gian	To span a length of time is to last that long.His work began in 1999. It has spanned many years since then.	
superstition	sự mê tín, sự dị đoan	A superstition is something magical that people believe is real.It is a superstition that Friday the 13th is an unlucky day.	
sympathy	sự thông cảm, sự đồng cảm	Sympathy is a feeling of being sad for another person. I felt sympathy for my sister so I got her a balloon to cheer her up.	
vibrate	lúc lắc, rung	To vibrate is to shake very hard. The machine made his whole body vibrate as he broke up the ground.	
wander	lang thang, đi thơ thẩn	To wander is to walk without going to a certain place. The boys like to wander in the woods and look at birds.	
armor	áo giáp	Armor is metal worn by soldiers to protect the body. The soldier wore armor to protect his body.	
blaze	ngọn lửa cháy rực	To blaze means to burn brightly or powerfully. The small fire soon blazed into a large dangerous one.	
boom	nổ đùng đùng	To boom means to make a loud, deep sound. The firecrackers made a loud boom when they exploded.	
cliff	vách đá (sát biển)	A cliff is a high and often flat wall of rock. The w olf stood at the c liff and howled.	
flame	ngọn lửa	A flame is part of fire. The torch was filled with yellow and orange flames.	
independence	sự độc lập; nền độc lập	Independence is the state of being free from the control of others. After leaving home, Sophia had a great feeling o f independence.	
invasion	sự xâm lăng	An invasion is an attack by a group from another country. In Korea, walls were built around cities to protect them from invasions.	
knight	hiệp sĩ	A knight is a soldier of high rank and skill who usually serves a king. He was the best soldier, so the king made him a knight.	
lightning	tia chớp	Lightning is the bright light seen during a storm. The lightning flashed above the water.	
rebel	người nổi loạn	A rebel is a person who fights the government in order to change it. The rebel had enough o f the government's unfair polices.	
retreat	rút lui, lui quân	To retreat means to run away because you have been beaten in a fight. The army retreated because they were losing the battle.	
revolution	cuộc cách mạng	A revolution is a change to the political system by a group of people. The revolution in Russia led to the creation o f the Soviet Union.	
spear	cái giáo, cái mác	A spear is a long stick with a blade on one end that is used as a weapon. The soldier was holding a spear in his hand.	
steep	dốc đứng	If something is steep, then its slope or angle rises or falls sharply. He rode his bike up the steep hill to reach the top.	
summit	chóp, đỉnh (núi)	A summit is the highest part of a hill or mountain. Snow covered the sum m it o f the mountain even during the summer.	
thunder	sấm	Thunder is the loud noise heard during a storm. The sound o f the thunder startled me.	
troops	đoàn, đàn, toán	Troops are soldiers that fight in groups in a battle. The troops were all prepared to go into battle.	
warrior	chiến sĩ	A warrior is a brave soldier or fighter. The samurai were some o f the most skilled warriors in the ancient world.	
withdraw	rút lại; thu hồi	To withdraw means to leave a place, usually during war. After losing the battle, the enemy withdrew back to its own country.	
yield	sinh ra, sản ra, mang lại	To yield something means to give up control of it or to give it away. He had to yield his turn because he was in checkmate.	
bench	ghế dài	A bench is a long seat for two or more people. Most parks have benches for citizens to relax upon.	
confront	chạm trán, đối đầu	To confront a hard situation or person is to deal with it. The couple has to confront each other about their problems.	
daisy	hoa cúc; cây cúc	A daisy is a small flower with white petals and a yellow center. There were a few daisies growing in the field.	
dispute	sự tranh cãi; cuộc tranh cãi	A dispute is an argument or disagreement that people have. Karen and Brian often have disputes about silly things.	
horror	sự khiếp sợ	Horror is a feeling of being very afraid or shocked. The audience screamed in horror when the ghost appeared in the movie.	
incident	sự cố	An incident is an event that is usually not pleasant. Mr. Wilson had an incident where he became sick and had to leave.	
mist	mù	Mist is water that you can see in the air or on a surface. The forest was covered with mist.	
object	đồ vật; vật	An object is an inanimate thing that you can see or touch. The shopping cart was filled with objects.	
orphan	trẻ mồ côi	An orphan is a child who does not have parents. The orphan frequently cried during the night.	
plot	mảnh [đất]	To plot is to make a secret plan to do something that is wrong or mean. The group was plotting to ruin the company's financial reports.	
pregnant	có thai, có mang	When a female is pregnant, she is going to have a baby. The pregnant woman was shopping for baby clothes.	
rage	cơn thịnh nộ	Rage is a very angry feeling. The chef was filled with rage when his helpers ruined the meal.	
revenge	sự trả thù	Revenge is what you do to hurt or punish someone who hurts you. He broke his sister's doll as revenge after she lost his favorite book.	
shame	sự thẹn, sự ngượng; sự xấu hổ	Shame is a bad feeling about things you have done wrong. The boy felt shame about misplacing his clothes.	
sigh	thở dài	To sigh is to breathe out loudly and show that you are tired or sad. Molly sighed when she looked at all the information she had to research.	
sneak	mách	To sneak is to move quietly so that no one hears or sees you. The thief snuck out o f the house without anyone noticing him.	
spare	thừa, dư, dự trữ	To spare something is to give it because you have more than you need. I wanted to help him but I couldn't spare a tire.	
stem	thân (cây); cuống (lá, hoa)	The stem of a plant is the stick that grows leaves or flowers. The rose had a long thin stem.	
supper	bữa ăn tối	Supper is a meal that is eaten in the evening.We usually have supper around 6 o 'clock at my house.	
tender	mềm yếu, yếu ớt	When something is tender, it is soft and easy to chew. The meat was so tender they didn't need knives to cut it with.	
beneath	dưới, không đáng, không xứng	If something is beneath something else, it is under it. The largest part o f an iceberg lies beneath the waterline.	
cub	con thú con (hổ, sói, gấu, cáo…)	A cub is a baby animal, such as a bear or lion. The lion cub was crying for its mother.	
dawn	bình minh, lúc sáng sớm	Dawn is the time of day when the sun rises. At dawn, the sun gently rose over the farm.	
dissatisfied	không hài lòng, không vừa ý	Ifyou are dissatisfied, you are not happy with something. I was dissatisfied with their decision to work on Sunday.	
ease	sự thoải mái, sự thanh thản	When something is done with ease, it is not hard to do. The monkey climbed the tree with ease.	
evident	hiển nhiên, rõ rệt	When something is evident, it is easy to see or understand. It was evident from the look on his face that he was unhappy.	
hail	mưa đá	Hail is ice that falls from the sky when rain freezes. The hail from the storm was the size o f g o lf balls.	
howl	tiếng tru (chó sói)	To howl means to make a long, loud sound like a wolf or a dog. The w olf howled at the moon.	
leap	nhảy vọt, nhảy	To leap means to jump a long distance. He had to leap over the gap to reach the other side o f the hill.	
magnificent	tráng lễ, lộng lẫy	When something is magnificent, it is beautiful and grand. The man gave his wife a pair o f magnificent diamond earrings.	
necessity	sự cần thiết, hoàn cảnh bắt buộc	A necessity is something that is needed. Fresh water is a necessity for life.	
outcome	hậu quả, kết quả	An outcome is the end of an action or event. The outcome o f his latest business plan was a complete failure.	
pile	trụ (cầu…), cọc, cột (nhà sàn...)	A pile is a large group of things on top of one another. The pile o f cups was beginning to tilt.	
profound	sâu; cực kỳ; tột bậc; rất lớn	When something is profound, it is very intelligent. For a little boy, Jeremy has some profound thoughts.	
seize	vồ, chộp, túm	To seize something means to grab it quickly or strongly. The man seized as much money as he could before anyone could see him.	
squeeze	ép, vắt, bóp	To squeeze something means to press it together and hold it tightly. When Clara saw her cat, she gave it a big squeeze.	
supreme	tối cao	When something is supreme, it is the highest or best. The supreme officer was in charge o f keeping the citizens calm.	
terrific	kinh khủng	When something is terrific, it is very good. My youngest daughter is a terrific painter.	
trait	nét, đặc điểm	A trait is part of someone's personality. One trait o f Salvador's personality is his cheerfulness.	
vital	[thuộc sự] sống; cần cho sự sống	When something is vital, it is necessary for life. The heart is a vital organ.	
accustomed	thường lệ, quen thuộc	When you become accustomed to something, you are in the habit of it. Grandfather is accustomed to reading the newspaper every morning.	
affirm	khẳng định	To affirm is to say that something is true. Using a graph, Malcolm affirmed the success o f the company.	
astonished	kinh ngạc	If someone is astonished, they are very surprised or shocked. 1 was astonished when he pulled the live rabbit out o f his hat.	
bang	đập mạnh	To bang is to hit something to make a noise. The drummer banged on his drum as he marched in the parade.	
clan	thị tộc	A clan is a group of relatives or friends. The Lee clan meets every year to celebrate the New Year.	
dim	mờ, lờ mờ	When something is dim, it does not give out much light. Working in a dim room is bad for your eyes.	
emphasis	sự nhấn mạnh	Emphasis is special attention or importance. The students put special emphasis on chapter 4 because it will be on the test.	
fable	truyên ngụ ngôn	A fable is a short story that teaches a lesson. In the fable about the tortoise and the hare, the lesson is consistency.	
feast	bữa tiệc, ngày lễ hội	A feast is a large meal for many people. At Thanksgiving, I enjoy a wonderful feast with my family.	
glow	rực sáng	To glow is to make a soft light. The small flame glowed softly.	
hollow	rỗng	When something is hollow, it has an empty space inside. Straws are hollow, so liquid can flow through them.	
instinct	bản năng	Instinct is the natural way that people behave without thinking about it. Cats hunt mice because o f instinct.	
joint	khớp (xương)	A joint is a place of the body where the bones meet, such as the knee. Two important bones in your leg meet at a jo in t in your knee.	
leak	lỗ rò, khe hở	To leak is to let a liquid or gas pass through a flaw. The pipe leaks from many places.	
physician	thầy thuốc	A physician is a doctor. The physician said I would feel better if I took my medicine.	
sacrifice	sự hy sinh	To sacrifice something valuable is to give it up to get something else. Her parents sacrificed a lot o f money in order for her to go to college.	
stiff	cứng	When something is stiff, it is hard to move. The bird was standing on the tree's s tiff branch.	
stroke	cú đánh, cơn đột quỵ	To stroke is to move a hand over something or someone. She stroked her cheek to see if there was something on it.	
tragic	[thuộc] bi kịch	When something is tragic, it is connected with death and suffering. The airplane crashed in a tragic accident.	
tune	giai điệu	A tune is a song. The students played a fam iliar tune for the audience.	
accommodate	chứa được, cung cấp	To accommodate is to have enough room. The meeting room can accommodate nine people.	
circus	đoàn xiếc	A circus is a traveling show with animals and people. I like to go to the circus to see the animals do tricks.	
coincide	trùng nhau	If two things coincide, they happen at the same time. My birthday coincides with Christmas.	
commission	nhiệm vụ, phận sự	To commission someone to do something is to pay them to do it. The artist was commissioned to create a picture.	
dose	liều thuốc	A dose is a certain amount of medicine that you take at one time. My mother gave me a dose o f medicine before I went to bed.	
dye	nhuộm	To dye something is to make it a certain color by using a special chemical. Valery got her hair dyed at the salon yesterday.	
extent	mở rộng	The extent of something is how large, important, or serious it is. He ate to such an extent that he became overweight.	
gender	giới tính	Gender is a category that describes being either a boy or a girl. Do you know the gender o f her new baby?	
headline	đề mục, tít (ở báo…)	A headline is the title of a newspaper story. The headline on the front page was about the economy.	
informal	không chính thức, [mang tính chất] khẩu ngữ, thông tục	When something is informal, it is not official. They had an inform al meeting to talk about their experiences.	
inquire	hỏi, dò hỏi	To inquire about something is to ask about it. Dad called to inquire about the price o f tickets for the show.	
messenger	người đưa tin, sứ giả	A messenger is one who carries information from one place to another. The messenger delivered an important document to the office.	
peer	người ngang địa vị	To peer at something is to watch it carefully. She peered at people through the window.	
portrait	chân dung (vẽ, chụp)	A portrait is a painting or photograph of someone. I saw many religious portraits when I went to the museum.	
pose	[đặt] ngồi (đứng) ở một tư thế nào đó (để chụp ảnh, làm mẫu vẽ…)	To pose is to stay in one place without moving. The kids and their dog posed for a picture.	
ranch	nông trại, trại	A ranch is a large farm where animals are kept. My uncle has many horses on his ranch.	
steer	lái (tàu thủy, xe hơi)	To steer something is to control where it goes. He steered the go-cart around the track.	
stripe	sọc, vằn	A stripe is a thick line. The flag o f the United States has red and white stripes.	
tame	đã thuần hoá	When an animal is tame, it is not afraid to be near people. The tame bird rested on his hand.	
tempt	xúi giục, cám dỗ	To tempt people is to offer them something they want but shouldn't have. I wasn't hungry, but she tempted me with a piece o f my favorite cake.	
Aborigine	thổ dân	An Aborigine is a native of Australia before Europeans lived there. The Aborigines created beautiful artwork.	
ban	cấm	To ban something is to not let people do it. Smoking is banned in this building.	
cautious	thận trọng, cẩn thận	Ifyou are cautious, you are careful in a dangerous situation. Be very cautious as you stack those boxes.	
confess	thú nhận	To confess something is to say that you did it. He confessed that he was responsible for choosing the winning story.	
cottage	nhà tranh, túp lều	A cottage is a small, old house in the countryside. My aunt lives in a pretty cottage in the mountains.	
daytime	ban ngày	Daytime is the time of the day when the sky is light. I only allowed my kids to play outside in the daytime.	
desperate	liều lĩnh tuyệt vọng	Ifyou are desperate, you will try anything to do or change something. I'm desperate to find a new job.	
fade	nhạt, phai, tàn	If something fades, it gets quieter or darker. The piece o f cloth I found was old and faded.	
fierce	hung dữ; dữ tợn	If a person or animal is fierce, they are angry or violent. Wolves are fierce animals. Do not disturb them.	
gamble	đánh bạc	To gamble means to play a game that involves winning or losing money. Many people like to go to casinos to gamble.	
lawn	bãi cỏ	A lawn is an area covered in grass. My dad keeps the lawn in front o f our house very neat.	
mow	cắt, gặt (cỏ… bằng liềm, hái)	To mow grass is to cut it to make it very short. I mow our lawn every weekend.	
outlaw	người bị đặt ra ngoài vòng pháp luật (thời trước)	An outlaw is a criminal who hides from the police. The police passed out posters o f the outlaw to all the people.	
prospect	(cũ) cảnh, tòan cảnh	A prospect is a possibility that something will happen. He wakes up every morning with the prospect o f having a good day.	
purse	ví [tiền]	A purse is a bag where women keep money, makeup and keys. My sister likes to buy designer purses.	
rod	cái que, cái gậy	A rod is a thin stick made of wood or metal. I bought a new fishing rod to use while on vacation.	
seldom	ít khi, hiếm khi	If something seldom happens, it doesn't happen very often. It seldom rains in southern Arizona.	
shave	cạo	To shave means to cut the hairs on your face with a sharp tool. My father shaves his face every day because he doesn't want a beard.	
terrified	khiếp sợ	Ifyou are terrified, you are extremely scared. When I saw the ghost, I was absolutely terrified!	
wizard	thầy phù thủy	A wizard is a man who can do magic. The wizard made gold fall from the sky.	
baggage	hành lý	Baggage is the set of bags that people take with them when they travel. I'm taking several pieces o f baggage with me on vacation.	
bulb	củ (hành, tỏi)	A bulb is the glass part of an electric light. I had to change the light bulb in my bedroom.	
bundle	bó, (số ít) nhiều tiền, đống tiền	A bundle is a number of things that are tied together. I was shocked when he showed me a bundle o f money.	
cattle	gia súc; trâu bò	Cattle are cows and bulls, especially on a farm. The rancher's cattle were eating the grass in the field.	
flee	bỏ trốn, chuồn	To flee means to run away from trouble or danger. The crowd o f men tried to flee from the danger.	
graze	ăn cỏ (súc vật)	To graze means to eat grass. The cows grazed in the field.	
greed	tính ham ăn; thói háu ăn	Greed is a desire to have more than the things that you need. She ate all the cookies out o f her greed.	
herd	bầy, đàn	A herd is a large group of the same type of animals that live together. The herd o f cows moved slowly across the ranch.	
initiate	bắt đầu, khởi xướng	To initiate something means to start it. You have to turn the switch on to initiate the computer system.	
lane	đường làng	A lane is a small road. The lane passes directly in front o f our house.	
luggage	hành lý	suitcases or other bags in which to pack personal belongings for traveling. The young woman's luggage was packed in apparent readiness to travel to California.	
nerve	dây thần kinh	Nerve is bravery or the belief that you can do something. He has the nerve to think that he can actually wrestle with a lion.	
optimist	người lạc quan	An optimist is somebody who sees the good parts of a situation. Even though he has physical problems, my brother is an optimist.	
parade	(quân sự) sự tập hợp (để kiểm tra)	A parade is a celebration when groups of people walk in the same direction. There were many marching bands in the spring parade.	
pave	lát (đường, sàn…)	To pave the ground is to lay material on it to make it easier to walk or drive on. The path was paved with yellow bricks.	
phantom	ma, bóng ma, ảo tượng, ảo tưởng	A phantom is a ghost or spirit. A scary phantom appeared from out o f the darkness.	
portable	có thể mang theo	Something that is portable is able to be moved or carried easily. Since computers are portable, people can use them anywhere.	
poster	tranh in khổ lớn	A poster is a written announcement that is used to advertise something. I saw a poster about a free concert in the park.	
scratch	cào, làm xước	To scratch is to make small cuts with a claw or fingernail. I used a stick to scratch my back.	
symphony	khúc giao hưởng	A symphony is a long piece of music performed by many musicians. Alex, a violin player, has always dreamt o f playing a symphony.	
widow	người đàn bà góa, quả phụ	A widow is a woman whose husband has died. The widow had no children and was very lonely.	
circulate	lưu thông, tuần hòan	To circulate something is to spread it quickly. The fan helped to circulate cool air through the room.	
consequent	do ở, bởi ở, là hậu quả của	Consequent means happening because of a different situation. Her consequent rash came after she touched the poison ivy.	
derive	thu được từ	To derive something from another source means to get it from that thing. Red's nickname was derived from the color o f her hair.	
drown	chết đuối	To drown is to die from not being able to breathe underwater. He would have drowned if the sailors would not have rescued him.	
dynasty	triều đại	A dynasty is a series of rulers who are all from the same family. The ancient Egyptians had a dynasty that lasted for many years.	
fraction	phần nhỏ	A fraction is a small part of something. Only a fraction o f the cake was gone.	
frost	thời tiết băng giá	Frost is a white layer of ice that forms during very cold weather. In the morning, the trees were all covered with frost.	
illusion	ảo tưởng	An illusion is something that looks real, but doesn't actually exist. Some pictures create an illusion for the eyes.	
invade	xâm lăng	To invade is to take over a place by force. The enemy forces tried to invade our country through the air.	
lieutenant	trung úy	A lieutenant is a rank in the military or police, or a person with that rank. The lieutenant was a good leader, and his soldiers respected him.	
marine	[thuộc] biển	The word marine describes something related to the sea. A healthy ocean is full o f marine animals.	
merit	giá trị, xứng đáng	The merit of something or someone is their good qualities. The actor received an award for his merits in the movie.	
navy	hạm đội	A navy is the part of a country's military that fights at sea. My country is known for our strong navy.	
polar	[thuộc] địa cực; gần địa cực	Polar relates to the cold places on Earth's north and south ends. Only a few people live in the Earth's northern polar region.	
ray	tia	A ray is a line of light that comes from a bright object. The sun's warm rays covered the beach.	
resign	(+ from) từ chức	To resign means to quit a job. After I officially resigned from work, I said goodbye to my boss.	
suicide	sự tự sát; vụ tự sát	Suicide is the act of killing oneself. Some people feel so sad that they think suicide is the only answer.	
tremble	rung	To tremble is to shake as a result of cold weather. Harry was not used to the cold, so he trembled most o f the day.	
underlying	nằm dưới, dưới	When something is underlying, it is a hidden cause of something else. Her underlying fear o f flying reduced her traveling options.	
via	qua	To travel via something means to travel through or using something. We arrived in the city from the airport via the train.	
alter	thay đổi, đổi	To alter something means to make a small change to it. I altered the color o f my nails to match my hair.	
aside	về một bên, sang một bên	If someone stands aside, they are on or to one side. The man stood aside and opened the door for me.	
autumn	mùa thu	Autumn is the season of the year between summer and winter. I love when the leaves fall in autumn because I can play in them.	
blend	trộn, pha trộn	To blend is to mix two or more things together so that they become one thing My wife blended together all o f the ingredients to make a delicious stew.	
collapse	đổ, sập, đổ sập	To collapse is to fall down suddenly. The tree collapsed right in front o f our house.	
crush	đè nát, nghiền nát	To crush something is to press it together so its shape is destroyed. Selena's new car was crushed when something fell on top o f it.	
curve	đường cong	To curve is to move in a line that bends and does not go straight. The road curves to the left and to the right.	
disgusting	làm ghê kinh tởm, làm kinh tởm	If something is disgusting, it is very unpleasant. After running all day, Greg's feet had a disgusting odor.	
drain	cống, rãnh, mương, máng	A drain is a pipe that carries away water from a building, such as in a kitchen. The water in the sink goes down the drain as you wash your hands.	
embrace	đón nhận	To embrace is to hug. When they saw each other again, the happy couple embraced.	
envy	sự ghen tỵ, sự đố kỵ	To envy someone is to wish that you had something that they have. Sally envied the happy couple.	
fireworks	pháo hoa	Fireworks are objects that create colored lights when they are lit. The display o f fireworks was so beautiful.	
flour	bột	Flour is a powder made from plants that is used to make foods like bread. I wanted to bake a pie, but I needed flour.	
fuse	ngòi nổ, kíp nổ	A fuse is a string that you light on fireworks to make them explode. The boy lit the fuse on the rocket and waited for it to burst in the sky.	
ginger	gừng	Ginger is a spice from the root of a plant. It tastes spicy and sweet. Ginger is a common ingredient in many dishes from India.	
jealous	ghen, ghen tuông	Ifyou are jealous, you think someone might take something from you. Miriam was jealous because Sue was paying too much attention to jim .	
paste	bột nhào	A paste is a thick and smooth substance. My son needed some paste for a school project.	
receipt	sự nhận [được]	A receipt is a paper that proves that something was received or bought. After looking at my receipt, I realized that I had spent too much money.	
wipe	lau, chùi	To wipe something is to slide a piece of cloth over it to clean it. She wiped the dust from the windows.	
wire	dây (kim loại)	A wire is a thin string made out of metal. The wires were connected to towers that brought electricity to the city.	
acknowledge	thừa nhận, nhận	If you acknowledge something, you accept that it is true or that it exists. The teacher acknowledged that the young student was hungry.	
ambassador	đại sứ	An ambassador is a government worker who works in another country. The ambassador from Korea was in charge ofthe conference.	
blonde	cô gái tóc hoe	If someone is a blonde, they have light-colored hair. My cousin is different from me. She is a blonde with blue eyes.	
conquer	chiếm, chinh phục	To conquer a country means to attack and take control of it. The soldiers were trying to conquer the world.	
drag	cái bừa	To drag something means to pull it across the ground. The dog was dragging his owner down the street.	
exaggerate	phóng đại, thổi phồng	To exaggerate is to say that something is bigger or better than it really is. Jimmy wasn't exaggerating about the seriousness o f his injury.	
heritage	di sản	Heritage is the collection of features of a society, such as language and religi Teepees are part ofthe heritage ofthe American Indians ofthe plains.	
insult	lăng mạ, sỉ nhục	To insult someone is to say things that will hurt their feelings. The girls insulted each other all afternoon.	
meanwhile	trong thời gian đó	Meanwhile means until something happens or while something is happening. He wants to be a doctor in the future, but meanwhile, he works a regularjol	
necklace	chuỗi hạt (đeo ở cổ)	A necklace is a piece of jewelry that people wear around their necks. Joyce received a lovely pearl necklace for her wedding anniversary.	
noble	[thuộc] quý tộc; quý phái	A noble is a rich and powerful person. The Queen invited a noble from a nearby country to dinner.	
precious	quý giá	When something is precious, it is valuable and important. In a desert, water can be more precious than money.	
prejudice	thiên kiến; thành kiến	A prejudice is an unfair opinion about someone before you get to know them. The company's rules against gender prejudice must be enforced.	
rumor	tin đồn	A rumor is a story that may not be true. Carla was spreading rumors around the office.	
sin	tội (về mặt đạo lý)	A sin is something that is wrong for religious reasons. Taking something that doesn't belong to you is a sin.	
spectacle	cuộc trình diễn	A spectacle is an amazing sight. Niagara Falls is quite a spectacle.	
stack	đống, chồng	A stack is a pile of different things. There was a stack o f paperwork on his desk to complete.	
suspicious	(+ of, about) tỏ vẻ nghi ngờ, tỏ vẻ ngờ vực	If someone is suspicious of someone else, they do not trust that person. Dad was suspicious ofthe caller on the line.	
tin	thiếc	Tin is a cheap white metal. Soup is a common food that is often sold in tin cans.	
vase	bình, lọ	A vase is an attractive container where people keep flowers. The vase was filled with such lovely flowers.	
ache	sự đau, sự nhức	If something aches, it hurts. M indy's head ached because she bumped it against the wall.	
arctic	[thuộc] Bắc cực, cực lạnh; giá rét; thích hợp với điều kiện giá rét	If something is arctic, it is from far north near the North Pole. It is cold when the arctic winds blow.	
canal	kênh, sông đào	A canal is a path for water to travel through. The city o f Venice, Italy, has many canals.	
chemist	người bán dược phẩm, dược sĩ	A chemist is a scientist who works with chemicals. My mother is a successful chemist who helps invent new products.	
chill	sự giá lạnh; sự ớn lạnh	A chill is a feeling of cold. The chill from the cold wind made Bill shiver.	
congress	quốc hội, đại hội	Congress is a group of leaders in a government. Congress makes laws for people to follow.	
dairy	nơi làm bơ sữa	If something is dairy, it is made from milk. Things like milk and cheese are dairy foods.	
descend	xuống	To descend is to go downward. I descended the stairs to get out ofthe building.	
grocer	người bán hàng khô	A grocer is a person who sells food. Our grocer, Mr. Smith, is a very kind man.	
hesitate	do dự, lưỡng lự	To hesitate is to wait for a short time before doing something. He hesitated for a moment before he decided which choice to make.	
institution	sự lập, sự mở, sự tiến hành	An institution is an organization that works to help a city or group of people. Banks are vital institutions that businesses and people use every day.	
jog	đẩy nhẹ, hích nhẹ	To jog is to run slowly. He jogs every day so he can be healthier.	
merchant	thương gia, nhà buôn	A merchant is a person who sells things. The merchant was selling used cars	
poke	chọc, thúc	To poke something is to push it with your finger. I poked my finger on a thumb tack.	
postpone	hoãn	To postpone something is to make it happen later than planned. They postponed the meeting until Elena arrived.	
splash	té; văng; làm bắn tóe	When a liquid splashes, it bursts and hits something. Some green paint splashed upon the floor.	
stubborn	cứng đầu cứng cổ, bướng bỉnh	If people are stubborn, they don't change their minds easily. Both o f my parents are stubborn. They never give in to each other.	
suburb	vùng ngoại ô	A suburb is a small part of a large city. I grew up in the suburbs only a few minutes outside ofthe city.	
tide	thuỷ triều	The tide is the level ofthe water in the sea. The tide continued to crawl upon the beach little by little.	
tragedy	bi kịch	A tragedy is a very sad event. It was a tragedy when his house was struck by lightning and burned.	
bomb	bom	A bomb is an object that explodes and destroys large areas. The bomb will destroy anything that is near.	
certificate	chứng chỉ; bằng, văn bằng	A certificate is a document that says that something is true or happened. I was given a certificate after completing the computer course.	
circumstance	hoàn cảnh	A circumstance is an event that makes a situation what it is. There were many circumstances behind their success like hard work.	
coffin	quan tài	A coffin is a box used to bury dead people. When a person passes away, they are usually buried inside o f a coffin.	
cope	đối phó, đương đầu với khó khăn	To cope with a difficult or stressful situation means to deal with it. He copes with work stress by exercising three or four times a week.	
criticism	sự phê bình	Criticism is the act of saying that you don't like or approve of something. She had a lot o f criticism about their new plan.	
devastate	tàn phá	To devastate something means to completely destroy it. The entire wall was devastated.	
frown	cau mày	To frown is to make an unhappy look with your face. Melissa frowned when she found out that the party had been cancelled.	
gaze	nhìn chằm chằm	To gaze at something means to look at it for a long time. We used a telescope to gaze at the stars for over an hour.	
glance	liếc nhìn, liếc	To glance at something means to look at it quickly. She glanced behind her to see if he was looking at her.	
grief	nỗi đau buồn	Grief is the feeling of deep sadness, usually when a person dies. The g rie f caused by losing her parents was very difficult for her.	
groom	người coi ngựa, chú rể	A groom is a man who is going to be married. The groom looked happy as he walked with his new wife.	
license	sự cho phép; giấy phép	A license is an official document that gives one permission to do something. In the United States you need a driver's license to drive legally.	
microscope	kính hiển vi	A microscope is a device that makes small objects look bigger. Germs cannot be seen without a microscope.	
nuclear	[thuộc] hạt nhân (nguyên tử)	When something is nuclear, it relates to the division or joining of atoms. Nuclear power plants provide inexpensive energy to cities.	
portray	vẽ chân dung (của ai)	To portray something means to describe it or show it in a picture. Her picture portrayed the house she grew up in when she was little.	
rotate	[làm cho] quay (quanh một trục)	To rotate something means to turn it around in a circle. An airplane's propellers rotate quickly to help it fly	
souvenir	vật kỷ niệm, quà lưu niệm	A souveniris somethingyou buy to remind you ofa place or event. I bought a Russian doll as a souvenir from my trip to Moscow.	
submarine	(hàng hải) tàu ngầm	A submarine is a boat that can go underwater for long periods of time. The submarine dove under the sea so the enemy couldn't see it.	
trace	dấu, vết, vết tích	To trace something means to follow over it with the eyes or a finger. He traced over the graph with his finger.	
appliance	thiết bị, dụng cụ	An appliance is a piece of equipment used for jobs in the home. Many homes have appliances like ovens, toasters and refrigerators.	
basin	cái chậu	A basin is large bowl for washing things. A sink is sometimes called a basin. She filled the basin with water and washed her face.	
broom	cây đậu kim	A broom is a brush with a long handle used for cleaning floors. My father usually uses a broom to sweep away dust in the basement.	
caterpillar	sâu bướm	A caterpillar is a small insect that looks like a worm and eats plants. After eating a lot o f leaves, caterpillars change into butterflies.	
cupboard	tủ búp phê, tủ	A cupboard is a piece of furniture that is used to store food or household items. We put all o f our dishes and food in the cupboards.	
delicate	mịn màng, mềm mại	If something or someone is delicate, they are easy to break or harm. You should hold the baby carefully because she's very delicate.	
emerge	nhô lên	To emerge from something means to come out of it. The hand suddenly emerged from the grave.	
handicap	điều bất lợi, điều thiệt thòi	A handicap is a condition that limits someone's mental or physical abilities. Joe has a slight handicap, so he uses a walker to get around.	
hook	cái móc, cái mắc	A hook is a sharp curved piece of metal used for catching or holding things. The fish went after the sharp hook.	
hop	nhảy lò cò (người)	To hop means to jump a short distance. The kangaroo quickly hopped away from danger.	
laundry	tiệm giặt là	Laundry is clothes that have been or need to be washed. He folded the clean laundry and put the dirty laundry in a basket.	
pursue	đuổi theo, đuổi bắt	To pursue someone or something is to chase or follow them. The mother pursued her young child down the hill.	
reluctant	miễn cưỡng, bất đắc dĩ	If someone is reluctant, they do not want to do something. She was reluctant to eat the meager breakfast.	
sleeve	tay áo	Sleeves are the part of a shirt where your arms go. Ryan bought a new shirt with long sleeves to keep his arms warm.	
spine	xương sống	The spine is the bone that runs up and down the middle ofthe back. Our spine helps us to stand up nice and straight.	
stain	làm ố, vấy bẩn	A stain is a dirty mark that is difficult to clean. He had a red stain on the collar o f his shirt.	
strip	cởi bỏ quần áo	A strip is a long, narrow piece of material or land. He had long strips o f film that held images o f his trip abroad.	
swear	(+ at) nguyền rủa, chửi rủa, thề;[bắt] tuyên thệ	To swear means to promise to do something. I will put my hand on the Bible and swear to do my best for the country.	
swing	đu đưa, lúc lắc	To swing something means to move it back and forth or from side to side. He can swing a g o lf club very powerfully.	
utilize	dùng, sử dụng	To utilize something means to use it for a specific purpose. They utilized a pair o f scissors to cut the ribbon.	
