allot	phân bổ	To allot something means to give it to someone. The coach allotted each team five minutes to prepare a strategy.	
appall	kinh khủng	To appall means to horrify, shock, or disgust someone. The boy was appalled when he saw the accident.	
cache	chổ dấu	A cache is a hiding place forvaluable things. The pirates kept their jewelry in a cache hidden in a cave.	
convenience	sự tiện lợi	Convenience is a state of being able to do something with little effort.The Internet allows consumers to shop at their own convenience.	
dearth	thân yêu	A dearth is an amount or supply which is not large enough.There is a dearth of money in my bank account. I can't afford a new car.	
deliberate	cố tình	If a thing you do is deliberate, you intend to do it.She made a deliberate effort to save money each month.	
dire	tàn khốc	When something is dire, it is terrible and very serious. The tornado created a dire situation for the small town.	
elapse	trôi mau	To elapse means to pass, as in seconds, minutes, or hours. A few seconds must elapse before you can take another picture.	
empathy	đồng cảm	Empathy is sharing or understanding another person's feelings. The caring nurse had empathy for her patients.	
fanciful	huyền ảo	When something is fanciful, it is unusual or unrealistic. The girl had fanciful ideas about doing well in school without studying.	
gripe	lời kêu ca, lời càu nhàu	To gripe means to complain constantly.Lawrence always gripes when he has to do chores.	
grueling	grueling	When something is grueling, it is very hard to do. The climber faced the grueling task of reaching the top of the steep mountain.	
mundane	tầm thường, vô vị	When something is mundane, it is boring, common, or ordinary.The man had the mundane chore of raking thousands of leaves into piles.	
opt	chọn	To opt is to make a choice, especially when deciding in favor of something. My brother likes chocolate ice cream, but I always opt for vanilla.	
outrage	sự tàn bạo; hành động tàn bạo	Outrage is a very strong emotion of anger or shock.Tommy was feeling outrage when his parents said he couldn't go to the dance.	
paltry	nhỏ mọn, không đáng kể	When an amount of something is paltry, it is very small. The poor man had a paltry sum of money.	
rectify	sửa cho đúng, sửa	To rectify something means to correct it. I quickly rectified the spelling mistakes that I had on my essay.	
resourceful	tháo vát, có tài xoay xở	When someone is resourceful, they are good at dealing with hard situations.After his boat sunk, Matt was resourceful enough to build a raft.	
sustenancechất bổ; sự bổ dưỡng	Sustenance is food and water needed to keep a person, animal, or plant alive. Without the proper sustenance, the man will starve.	
tedious	chán ngắt	When something is tedious, it is long, frustrating, and boring. His job involved a lot of tedious typing, filing, and organizing.	
abbey	tu viện	An abbey is a house or group of houses where monks or nuns live.When the monk returned to the abbey, he went immediately to his bedroom.	
abundant	phong phú, thừa thãi, nhiều	If something is abundant, then it is available in large quantities. Cakes, cookies, and candy were so abundant that the child was very happy.	
adjoin	tiếp vào, sát nách, bên cạnh	To adjoin something means to be next to or attached to something else. She can listen to her brother's conversations because her room adjoins his.	
ample	dư dật, thừa thãi	If something is ample, then it is enough or more than enough. There was an ample supply of oats to feed the horses.	
arid	khô cằn (đất, khí hậu)	If a place is arid, then it is hot and dry and gets very little or no rain.Not many plants grow in the arid desert.	
cathedral	nhà thờ lớn	A cathedral is an important and often large and beautifully built church. The large cathedral is full of people on Sunday mornings.	
deprive	lấy đi, tước đi, cướp đi	To deprive someone of something means to not let them have it. Because the child was bad, she was deprived of her dessert after dinner.	
drought	hạn hán	A drought is a long period of time in which little or no rain falls.After three months of drought, the vegetation and trees started dying.	
eligible	đủ tư cách, thích hợp	If someone is eligible, then they are permitted to do or have something. Only people who bought tickets were eligible to win a prize.	
fast	nhanh; nhanh chóng	To fast means to go without food or drink for a period of time.In her religion, they fast for five days and then have a big feast.	
grumble	càu nhàu, lầm bầm	To grumble means to complain.He grumbled about having to work late on Friday.	
inland	nội địa, ở sâu trong đất liền	If someone goes inland, they travel into the center of a country or land. The river curved inland near the campground.	
moisture	hơi ẩm; nước ẩm đọng lại	Moisture is small drops of water in the air or on a surface.If you breathe on a window, moisture from your breath collects on the glass.	
nonetheless	dù sao	If something happens nonetheless, then it occurs despite some other thing.She tried to keep the dog out of the mud, but it got dirty nonetheless.	
oath	lời thề; lời tuyên thệ	An oath is a formal, often public, promise. Judges must take an oath to be fair to everyone in court.	
prairie	đồng cỏ	A prairie is a large flat area of grassland.The prairie was perfect for a farm because there were hills and trees.	
ragged	rách rưới; tả tơi	If something is ragged, then it is old, torn, and falling apart. They could see his toes through the holes in his ragged shoes.	
rugged	gồ ghề, lởm chởm, xù xì	If an area of land is rugged, then it is rocky and difficult to travel through. Their car couldn't make it far along the rugged roads.	
scarce	khan hiếm; hiếm	If something is scarce, then it is in a very small amount. When gasoline was scarce, we rode our bikes, instead of driving, to school.	
speculate	(+ about, on, upon) đoán, suy đoán	To speculate means to guess about something. My sister looked at the sky and speculated that it would rain tomorrow.	
analytic	[dùng phép] phân tích	If something is analytic, it is related to logic and reasoning.The analytic article criticized the new plan and presented one of its own.	
assert	đòi (quyền lợi …)	To assert a fact or belief means to state it with confidence. He asserted that his mother's cooking was better than his best friend's.	
bachelor	người chưa vợ, người độc thân, cử nhân	A bachelor is an unmarried man. Since he was a bachelor, Jason did his shopping by himself.	
calculus	phép tính	Calculus is an advanced type of mathematics. By using calculus, scientists determined small changes in the stars' brightness.	
celestial	[thuộc] trời	If something is celestial, it is related to the sky or to outer space. Comets are celestial objects that are rarely seen.	
cognitive	[về] nhận thức	If something is cognitive, it is related to learning and knowing things.After her physical examination, her cognitive strengths were tested.	
collision	(+ with, between) sự va, sự đụng	A collision is the act of two things hitting into each another. The collision between the two cars created a loud noise.	
competent	có khả năng thạo, giỏi	If someone is competent, they are able to think or act successfully. Competent employees are much better than unknowledgeable ones.	
diploma	văn bằng, bằng cấp	A diploma is a certificate proving that someone has completed their studies. After four years of college, Mary finally had a diploma.	
excel	(+ in, at) trội, giỏi, xuất sắc	To excel at a subject or activity means to be very good at it. Jenny excels at playing the piano.	
geology	địa chất học; địa chất	Geology is the study of the Earth's natural structures and how they change. Because he studied geology, he knew how the mountains were formed.	
harness	bộ yên cương 	To harness something means to control and use it, usually to make energy. The sails harness the wind in order to move.	
intellect	trí tuệ, trí năng	An intellect is a person's ability to understand things easily.She was known for her quick and strong intellect as well as her beauty.	
keen	mãnh liệt, nồng nhiệt	If someone is keen, they are intelligent.Only the keenest of students could have solved that math problem.	
mythology	thần thoại	Mythology is a group of stories from a particular country or region. Egyptian mythology was the basis for a religion.	
physiology	sinh lý học	Physiology is the study of the various parts of living things. His work in physiology helped him understand how the human body works.	
radioactive	phóng xạ	If something is radioactive, then it lets out, or is related to, radiation. Radioactive materials can be very bad for anyone's health.	
relativity	tính tương đối	Relativity is a set of ideas about time and space developed by Albert Einstein.Relativity teaches that light travels at the same speed in the universe.	
sociology	xã hội học	Sociology is the study of human society, its organizations, and problems. Sociology teaches that people's problems are a result of their society.	
theoretical	[thuộc] lý thuyết	If something is theoretical, it is based on theory rather than experience. His conclusion was only theoretical and not meant to be publicized.	
administrator	người quản lý	An administrator is a person who controls a business, company, or organization.Everyone in the store did whatever the administrator asked them to do.	
affluent	dồi dào, sung túc; giàu có	If someone is affluent, they are wealthy. People in the city are usually more affluent than people in the country.	
audit	sự kiểm tra sổ sách kế toán	To audit means to inspect financial records from a person or business. The government usually audits companies that report lower than usual incomes.	
automate	tự động hóa	To automate a company means to install machines or computers to do the work. When the bank automated, it started installing ATM machines.	
bribe	của hối lộ, vật hối lộ	To bribe someone means to illegally persuade them for a favor with money.• The judge was bribed so that she would set the suspect free.	
corrupt	đồi bại, thối nát	If someone is corrupt, they break the law for money or fame.The corrupt policemen didn't arrest the man because he gave them money.	
dispose	sắp xếp, thu xếp	To dispose of something means to get rid of it. He disposed of the can by throwing it into the recycle bin.	
headquarters	tổng hành dinh	A headquarters is a building where the bosses of a company work. He drove the long route to headquarters because it was a nice day.	
incentive	cái khuyến khích, vật khích lệ	An incentive is what makes a person want to do something. The chance of winning a prize was incentive to get people to play the game.	
infrastructure	cơ sở hạ tầng	An infrastructure is a collection of services needed to run a society or business.Power lines are important parts of a city's infrastructure.	
legislate	làm luật, xây dựng luật	To legislate means to make laws. Senators have to legislate fairly, so most people will enjoy the benefits.	
legitimate	hợp pháp	If something is legitimate, then it is acceptable according to the law.She found a legitimate plan to raise extra funds for her vacation.	
manipulate	thao tác (máy..), lôi kéo, vận động	To manipulate something means to skillfully or unfairly control or affect it. The Dr. manipulated the data to make it look like the cure was working.	
merchandise	hàng hoá, buôn bán	Merchandise is goods ready to be purchased or sold. The store added more merchandise because there were more shoppers.	
retail	(sự) bán lẻ; việc bán lẻ	Retail is the activity of selling goods to the public, often for personal use.Though cheap to make, once a t-shirt reaches retail, it costs ten times as much.	
revenue	thu nhập (quốc gia, chủ yếu do thu thuế)	Revenue is the income made by a company. The new products really increased the business's monthly revenue.	
rubbish	đồ bỏ đi, rác	Rubbish is trash or waste.The floor around the garbage can was covered with all kinds of rubbish.	
subsidy	[tiền] trợ cấp	A subsidy is money given by the government to companies to assist them. The official gave the company a subsidy, so it could open two new factories.	
transaction	việc [được] giao dịch	A transaction is an act of buying or selling something. Because the clerk was new at the job, the simple transaction took a long time.	
violate	vi phạm, phạm, trái [với]	To violate a law, rule, or agreement means to break it. I was given a ticket because the policeman said I violated the speed limit.	
assess	định mức	To assess something means to judge the structure, purpose, or quality of it. She assessed the condition of the toy car before buying it.	
astonish	làm kinh ngạc	To astonish someone means to greatly surprise them. The amount of people that came to her party astonished her.	
commence	bắt đầu	To commence something means to begin it. His speech commenced with a "thankyou" to all who had helped him succeed.	
essence	thực chất, bản chất	The essence of something is its important qualities or basic characteristics. The essence of the argument was that both sides felt they had lost money.	
extract	nhổ, rút ra	To extract something means to remove it. The dentist extracted the woman's damaged tooth and put in a fake one.	
fabulous	phi thường	If something is fabulous, it is extremely good. This strawberry is the best I've ever had. It's fabulous.	
haste	sự vội vàng	Haste is speed in movement or action. In order to get to the meeting in time, he proceeds with haste.	
impulse	cảm hứng đột ngột, ý muốn bất chợt	An impulse is a sudden thoughtless urge to do something. Because of the scary noise, she had an impulse to run somewhere and hide.	
latter	sau cùng, gần cuối kỳ	Latter describes something last in a series orthe second choice of two things. In the latter minutes of the game, the visitors scored the winning goal.	
molecule	phân tử	A molecule is the smallest basic unit that makes up a physical substance. A tiny drop of water is made up of thousands of molecules of water.	
ongoing	tiếp tục, tiếp diễn	If something is ongoing, then it is still happening or still growing. The development of plants is ongoing because it takes time for them to mature.	
pharmaceutical	[thuộc] dược [khoa]	If something is pharmaceutical, then it is related to the development of drugs. Pharmaceutical companies discover new cures to illnesses all the time.	
precise	đúng; chính xác	If someone is precise, then they are exact and careful about their work. The builder was very precise about where he placed the nails.	
proximity	trạng thái gần (về không gian, thời gian...))	Proximity is closeness in time, space, or relationships. All the trees in the proximity of the beach had been cut down.	
publicity	tính công khai, tình trạng được nhiều người biết	Publicity is public attention given to someone or something by the media. She received a lot of publicity after her performance in the film.	
remedy	thuốc; phương thuốc	A remedy is a cure for a disease, argument, or problem. A good remedy for a headache is an aspirin and a glass of water.	
significance	ý nghĩa	The significance of something is the quality that makes it important. The significance of the snowy weather was that we didn't have to go to school.	
subsequent	theo sau, tiếp sau	If something is subsequent, then it comes after something else in time. The flood and the subsequent rescue of those caught in the flood were on TV.	
synthetic	tổng hợp	If something is synthetic, then it is made to be like something natural. Clothing made out of synthetic fabrics is very effective at keeping people warm.	
terminal	ở giai đoạn cuối, trạm cuối	If something is terminal, then it causes or results in death.Since his condition was not terminal, he felt a great sense of relief.	
altitude	độ cao (so với mặt biển)	The altitude of a place is its height above sea level. The air was thin at such a high altitude on the mountain.	
coastline	bờ biển; hình dáng bờ biển	A coastline is the outline of a country's coast. He noticed that most of the cities in Australia are on the coastline.	
deter	ngăn cản; răn đe	To deter means to prevent or discourage someone from doing something.Icy roads deter people from driving their cars.	
devise	nghĩ ra, đặt ra (kế hoạch…); sáng chế	To devise something means to have an idea or plan about it in the mind. The thieves devised a plan to steal the diamonds.	
expertise	sự thành thạo, kiến thức chuyên môn (về một lãnh vực)	Expertise is the knowledge and skills to do something well. John has a lot of advertising expertise. He can sell anything!	
fracture	sự gãy; sự gãy xương; chỗ gãy xương	A fracture is a crack or break in something. Don't stand on that teg because there is a fracture. It might get worse.	
impair	làm nguy hại, làm suy yếu	To impair something means to damage it or make it worse. Drinking coffee impairs my ability to go to sleep.	
implement	thi hành, thực hiện	To implement something means to ensure that what has been planned is done. The school decided to implement a new teaching strategy.	
indigenous	bản địa, bản xứ	If something is indigenous, it is originally from, or native to, a place. Tomatoes are indigenous to the Americas.	
insight	sự hiểu thấu; điều hiểu thấu	Insight is a deep and accurate understanding of something. The physics textbook gave the student new insight about gravity.	
limb	tay, chân	A limb is a large branch on a tree. The monkey sat on the tree limb and enjoyed a piece of fruit.	
migraine	chứng đau nửa đầu	A migraine is a painful headache that makes one feel sick. My sister gets a migraine every time she has a lot of stress.	
optimism	sự lạc quan; tính lạc quan	Optimism is the feeling of being hopeful about the future or success of something. The mother had optimism about her children's futures.	
peculiar	kỳ quặc, kỳ cục	When something is peculiar, it is strange, sometimes in a bad way. That peculiar smell coming from the kitchen reminds me of rotten eggs.	
proficient	 thành thạo	When a person is proficient at something, they can do it well. Secretaries are proficient at typing quickly.	
quest	sự tìm [kiếm], sự theo đuổi	A quest is a long and difficult search for something. The treasure hunter went on a quest to find an ancient gold necklace.	
ridge	 ngọn, đỉnh (núi)	A ridge is a long, narrow piece of raised land. The brown bear walked along the edge of the mountain ridge.	
spouse	chồng; vợ	A spouse is the person to whom someone is married. I live in a home with my spouse and our two children.	
thrust	ấn, đẩy, thọc, len	To thrust means to push or move something quickly with a lot of force. The boxer thrust his fist into the punching bag.	
tolerate	tha thứ, khoan thứ	To tolerate something means to be able to accept it even when it is unpleasant. When you are in a hurry, it can be hard to tolerate traffic signals.	
aquatic	sống ở nước, mọc ở nước	If a plant or animal is aquatic, it lives or grows in water. The dolphin is an aquatic mammal.	
biosphere	sinh quyển	The biosphere is the earth's surface and atmosphere where there are living things. Birds, trees, and worms all thrive in the biosphere.	
bizarre	kỳ cục	When something is bizarre, it is very strange.My bizarre dreams make no sense to me when I am awake.	
Celsius	centigrade (thang nhiệt độ)	Celsius is a scale for measuring temperature. Water freezes at zero degrees Celsius.	
coarse	thô	If something is coarse, that means it has a rough texture. The coarse sweater made my skin itch.	
companion	bạn	A companion is a person that someone spends a lot of time with. I always walk to school with my companion Frank	
digest	sách tóm tắt	To digest means to swallow food and pass it through the body.Allow some time for food to be digested before going swimming.	
duration	thời gian [tồn tại]	The duration of an event is the time during which it happens. The girls watched television for the duration of the evening.	
ecology	sinh thái; sinh thái học	Ecology is the study of the environment and living things. We study ecology to learn how to help improve the Earth.	
feat	kỳ công	A feat is an impressive or difficult achievement or action.The elephant's standing up on one leg was a feat.	
infinite	vô tận, vô hạn, vô cùng	If something is infinite, it has no limit or end. Many scientists believe that the universe is infinite.	
nucleus	trung tâm, hạt nhân (bóng)	The nucleus is the central part of an atom or cell. The nucleus is made up of many tiny particles.	
parasite	vật ký sinh	A parasite is a tiny animal or plant that attaches to another animal to get food.The sick dog was covered in parasites.	
prominent	lồi lên, nhô ra	When something is prominent, it is important and well known. Queen Victoria was a prominent person in history.	
repetitive	có đặc trưng lặp đi lặp lại	When something is repetitive, it is repeated many times and becomes boring. Working on an assembly line making cars every day is a repetitive job.	
reproductive	sinh sản	If something is reproductive, it has to do with a living thing producing young. The reproductive system of a plant is simple.	
temperate	ôn hoà	When a place is temperate, it never gets too hot or cold. In Peru, the weather is temperate and rarely gets too hot or cold.	
tolerance	sự khoan dung; sự tha thứ	Tolerance is the ability to accept something painful or unpleasant. Boxers have a high tolerance for pain.	
undergo	trải qua, chịu, bị	To undergo an action means to have it happen to you. The cancer patient undergoes treatments twice a week.	
vulnerable	dễ bị thương tổn, dễ bị tấn công, dễ bị công kích	When someone is vulnerable, they are weak and without protection.He felt very vulnerable when he was stranded in the desert.	
adept	giỏi, thạo	If someone is adept at something, they are very good at doing it. The carpenter is very adept at building houses.	
barren	cằn cỗi (đất); không có quả (cây); không sinh đẻ (phụ nữ)	If land is barren, it has no plants growing on it.People cannot farm in barren lands.	
ceramic	[thuộc đồ] gốm	If something is ceramic, it is made of baked clay. The house's roof was made of ceramic tiles.	
culinary	[thuộc] cách nấu nướng	If something is culinary, it is related to cooking. I gained culinary skills after working in a restaurant for many years.	
dense	dày đặc, chặt	If something is dense, it has a lot of things close together. I easily became lost in the dense forest.	
dignity	chân giá trị	Dignity is the ability to be calm and worthy of respect. When his company went out of business, he faced it with dignity.	
dominate	thống trị	To dominate someone or something is to control them. The loud man dominated the conversation.	
edible	ăn được (không độc)	If something is edible, you can eat it. We learn about edible plants when we go camping.	
hostile	thù địch; của kẻ thù	If someone is hostile, they are angry and unfriendly. We were happy to move away from our hostile neighbor.	
intake	sự lấy vào; điểm lấy vào (của nhiên liệu vào máy…)	Your intake of food is the amount of food you take into your body. The doctor said I needed to increase my intake of fruits and vegetables.	
likewise	cũng thế, cũng vậy	If someone does something likewise, they do the same thing as someone else. If Joe is staying away from school to go swimming, I want to do likewise.	
malnutrition	sự kém dinh dưỡng, sự thiếu ăn	Malnutrition is the condition of not getting enough nutrients. After eating only a meager amount of food, she suffered from malnutrition.	
medication	sự bốc thuốc, sự cho thuốc	Medication is medicine or drugs given to people who are sick.The doctor gave me medication to treat my illness.	
misconception	nhận thức sai, quan niệm sai	A misconception is a wrong idea about something. People once believed the misconception that the Earth is flat.	
obscure	tối; tối tăm	If something is obscure, it is not well-known.The old man travels the world in search of obscure books.	
oppress	áp bức	To oppress someone means to rule over them in a cruel and unfair way. Free speech had been oppressed in his country.	
peel	bóc vỏ, gọt vỏ	To peel fruits and vegetables is to remove their skin. We peeled the apple before eating it.	
prescription	đơn thuốc, toa thuốc	A prescription is permission from a doctor to get medicine. The doctor gave me a prescription for my medication.	
respirator	( y) máy hô hấp	A respirator is a machine that helps weak or sick people breathe.The man needed a respirator to breathe.	
strive	cố gắng, nỗ lực	To strive is to struggle to achieve something.People who strive to succeed often do.	
archaic	cổ	If something is archaic, it is very old or outdated. To be competitive, we must update our archaic equipment.	
benevolent	nhân đức	If someone is benevolent, they are kind and generous. My father was a benevolent man and gave lots of money to charity.	
brass	đồng thau	Brass is a metal that is used to make musical instruments and ornaments.Brass is used to make musical instruments like trumpets.	
capitalism	chủ nghĩa tư bản	Capitalism is an economic system where private companies make goods for profit. Most industries in the world today are based on capitalism.	
component	thành phần, bộ phận cấu thành	A component is a part of a larger machine. Computers have many different components, so they are complicated to build.	
dependence	sự tin, sự tin cậy	Dependence is a situation in which somebody relies on something else. Young children have a dependence on their parents.	
diminish	[làm] bớt, [làm] giảm bớt	To diminish means to reduce or get smaller. As the economy got worse, my savings diminished.	
drawback	[điều] bất lợi	A drawback is a disadvantage. The drawback of having a car is that it is very expensive to maintain.	
fad	sự thích thú kỳ quặc	A fad is something that is popular for a short time. The hula hoop was a fad for a few years, but it soon lost its popularity.	
impose	đánh (thuế)	To impose means to interrupt or force your ideas on other people. He imposes on his wife every morning by expecting her to make breakfast.	
managerial	[thuộc] ban quản trị	Managerial describes something related to a manager or management.Nancy has a managerial position at the bank.	
medieval	(thuộc) thời Trung cổ; kiểu trung cổ	If something is medieval, it comes from the period between 650 and 1500 CE.We visited a castle that was built during medieval times.	
obsolete	không dùng nữa, cũ; lỗi thời	If something is obsolete, it is not used anymore because something better exists. Since computers became inexpensive, typewriters have become obsolete.	
peninsula	bán đảo	A peninsula is a large piece of land that is surrounded by the sea on three sides. The state of Florida is an example of a peninsula.	
prestige	uy tín, uy thế	If a person has prestige, people admire or respect them.The young actress gained much prestige after she won an award.	
proportion	tỷ lệ, sự cân xứng, sự tương xứng	A proportion is an amount that shows the link between the parts and the whole. Only a small proportion of the people in this town actually work here.	
radical	[ở gốc]; căn bản	If something is radical, it is very new or different. The president is planning to make some radical changes to the law.	
refute	bác, bẻ lại	To refute something means to prove that it is false or incorrect.The bank manager has refuted the claims that he lied to his customers.	
spectacular	đẹp mắt, ngoạn mục	If something is spectacular, it looks or sounds very impressive. There was a spectacular fireworks display in the park at New Year.	
weave	dệt	To weave means to make cloth using horizontal and vertical threads. We saw a woman weave a blanket on our vacation to South America.	
accountant	kế toán viên	An accountant is a person whose job is to keep financial accounts. The accountant helped me keep track of my money.	
capitalist	nhà tư bản	A capitalist is a business person who invests in trade and industry for profit. The capitalist invested in a factory that made wheat into cereal.	
contempt	sự coi khinh, sự coi thường, sự khinh bỉ	Contempt is the feeling of having no respect for something. The judge had contempt for the wicked criminal.	
dedicate	cống hiến, hiến dâng	To dedicate oneself to something means to put a lot of time and effort into it. The nun dedicated herself to helping people in need.	
ditch	hào, rãnh, mương	A ditch is a narrow hole cut into the ground by a road or a field.When the car slid off of the road, it fell into the ditch.	
enterprise	việc làm khó khăn, việc làm táo bạo	An enterprise is a company or business. My father owns an advertising enterprise.	
exquisite	tinh tế, tuyệt vời	When something is exquisite, it is very beautiful or pleasant. The artist made exquisite watercolor paintings.	
finance	tài chính	To finance someone or something means to provide money for them. The government financed the scientist's experiments with new weapons.	
indifferent	thờ ơ, lãnh đạm	When someone is indifferent toward something, they have a lack of interest in it. Lisa is indifferent toward school. She doesn't care what her final grades are.	
irrigate	dẫn nước, tưới	To irrigate means to supply water to land so that crops can grow.In dry climates, it is important to irrigate fields of crops.	
maximize	làm tăng lên tột độ	To maximize something is to make it as great in amount, size, or importance. You should exercise regularly to maximize a healthy lifestyle.	
monetary	[thuộc] tiền tệ	When something is monetary, it relates to money. A strong monetary policy is important for a country to be successful.	
precaution	biện pháp phòng ngừa	A precaution is an action that is meant to stop something bad from happening. Asa precaution, you should put on a heavy coat before going out in cold weather.	
preliminary	mào đầu, sơ bộ	Preliminary describes something that happens before a more important event. The runners must do well in the preliminary races to qualify for the final race.	
saturate	làm ướt đẫm, tẩm	To saturate something means to completely soak it with a liquid. The sponge was saturated with soapy water and dripped all over the floor.	
simplicity	sự đơn giản	The simplicity of something is the fact that it is easy to do or understand. We were able to find the house thanks to the simplicity of the directions.	
sow	lợn nái, gieo hạt	To sow seeds means to plant them in the ground.He always sows his garden seeds in the springtime.	
soy	tương, nước tương	Soy is a food made from soybeans, such as flour or butter. Soy can be made into tofu, sauce, and also milk.	
spade	cái mai, cái thuổng	A spade is a tool used for digging. The gardener used her spade to make a hole for the seed.	
upcoming	sắp sảy ra	When something is upcoming, that means it will happen in the near future. The kids were worried about their upcoming exam.	
acute	to lớn, nghiêm trọng	When a bad thing is acute, it is very severe and intense. When she fell out of the tree, the girl felt an acute pain in her arm.	
aggression	sự xâm lược	Aggression is behavior that is mean or violent to others. The problem was only made worse by Mark's aggression.	
banquet	bữa tiệc lớn	A banquet is a grand formal dinner. Both families brought a lot of food for the wedding banquet.	
biography	tiểu sử	A biography is an account of someone's life that is written by someone else. We read a biography about Charles Darwin in science class.	
boost	tăng lên, khích lệ	To boost something means to increase or improve it. Lowering prices boosts customers' interest in shopping.	
clap	vỗ tay	To clap means to hit one's hands together to express pleasure or get attention. After the speech, everyone in the crowd clapped their hands for the speaker.	
compel	buộc, ép	To compel someone to do something means to force them to do itTraffic signs compel drivers to drive safely.	
dominance	ưu thế, vượt trội	The dominance of a person is their state of being more powerful than others. Large gorillas hit their chests to express their dominance over others.	
gorgeous	huy hoàng, tuyệt vời, lộng lẫy	When something is gorgeous, it is very pleasing and attractive.The girl picked out a gorgeous dress to wear to the dance.	
inevitable	không thể tránh được	When something is inevitable, it is certain to happen or cannot be avoided. It is inevitable that the days will get longer in the summer.	
legacy	di sản	A legacy is an effect that exists because of a person or thing in the past. The legacy of the ancient Egyptians can be seen in their monuments.	
masterpiece	kiệt tác	A masterpiece is a very good painting, novel, movie, or other work of art. The Arc de Triomphe is considered a masterpiece in the world of architecture.	
multiple	nhiều	If there are multiple things, there are many of them. When the stunt went wrong, the man suffered multiple injuries.	
narrate	kể lại, tường thuật	To narrate a story means to write about it or read it aloud. This story was written by John, but Aaron is narrating it to the crowd.	
notorious	khét tiếng	When something is notorious, it is well-known because of something bad. This area of town is notorious for gang activity.	
outdated	lỗi thời	When something is outdated, it is old and no longer useful in modern time. Tape players are becoming outdated because of digital music.	
overall	tổng cộng; toàn bộ	When a thing is talked about overall, the whole thing is considered. Overall, the party was a huge success.	
partiality	sự thiên vị	A partiality is a tendency to prefer one thing to another.She has a partiality for walking to school instead of driving.	
spontaneous	tự phát, tự sinh, tự ý	When an act is spontaneous, it is not planned. It happens suddenly. My wife made a spontaneous decision to buy a new sofa while I was at work.	
virtue	đức, đạo đức; đức hạnh	A virtue is a good quality or way of behaving. My best virtue is forgiveness.	
anthropology	nhân loại học	Anthropology is the study of people, society, and culture.In anthropology class, I learned about simple tools that ancient cultures used.	
applaud	người vỗ tay; người hay khen	To applaud means to clap in order to show approval. Everyone cheered and applauded Manny's efforts.	
appoint	bổ nhiệm, chỉ định, chọn	To appoint someone to a job means to give the job to them. Two students were appointed to help the scientists with their research.	
compatible	thích hợp với	When things are compatible, they work well or exist together successfully.Jan and Fred are too different. They will never be compatible.	
competence	năng lực, khả năng	Competence is the ability to do something well or effectively. The job was easy because the group had enough competence to do it well.	
confer	bàn bạc, tham khảo ý kiến	To confer with someone means to discuss something with them to make a decision.I will have to confer with my wife before I can purchase a new car.	
consecutive	liên tiếp, tiếp liền nhau	When things are consecutive, they happen one after another without interruption. The king ruled for ten consecutive years.	
crude	nguyên, sống, thô (chưa tinh luyện, tinh chế)	When something is crude, it is not exact or detailed, but it can still be useful. She drew crude hearts on the ground to show how much she loved him.	
cube	(toán học) hình lập phương	A cube is a solid object with six square surfaces that are all the same size. Please get me some ice cubes to put in my soda.	
feedback	 sự hồi tiếp	Feedback is comments to a person about how they are doing something. I asked my boss for feedback on my work.	
ignorance	sự dốt nát	Ignorance of something is lack of knowledge about it. When he failed the test, his ignorance of math was obvious.	
masculine	có dáng dấp đàn ông	When something is masculine, it is a quality or thing related to men.American football is usually considered a masculine sport.	
monument	đài tưởng niệm	A monument is a structure that is built to remind people of a person or event. A large monument was built to honor the brave soldiers.	
muscular	[thuộc] bắp thịt, [thuộc] bắp cơ	When someone is muscular, they are very fit and strong. He exercised regularly so that his body could become muscular.	
posture	tư thế	A person's posture is the position in which they stand or sit. Your back will feel better if you improve your posture.	
situate	đặt ở, xây dựng ở	To situate something means to place or build it in a certain place. The road was situated between the forest and the lake.	
supervise	giám sát	To supervise something means to make sure that it is done correctly. Allen supervised the construction workers to ensure everyone's safety.	
symmetry	sự đối xứng	Symmetry is the state of having two halves that are exactly the same. The artist made sure to use perfect symmetry when painting the butterfly.	
tattoo	tiếng trống (kèn) gọi quân buổi tối	A tattoo is a design that is drawn permanently on the skin with needles. The surfer had tattoos on both his arms.	
undergraduate	sinh viên chưa tốt nghiệp	An undergraduate is a student at a college who is studying fora bachelor's degree.She was excited to finish high school and enroll as an undergraduate in the fall.	
brook	suối, chịu, chịu đựng, tha thứ	A brook is a small stream.Water flows down several brooks on the mountain.	
cater	phục vụ ăn uống	To cater to someone means to provide them with all the things needed or wanted. Bill was too sick to get out of bed, so his nurse catered to his needs.	
considerate	ân cần chu đáo; có ý tứ	When someone is considerate, they pay attention to the needs of others.The considerate boy gave a present to his girlfriend on Valentine's Day.	
consumption	sự tiêu dùng	The consumption of food or drink is the act of eating or drinking it. These apples are too rotten for consumption.	
criteria	tiêu chuẩn	Criteria are factors on which a person judges or decides something. Before she got the job, she had to meet all the necessary criteria.	
crust	vỏ cứng (bánh mì, trái đất…)	Crust is the tough outer part of a loaf of bread. The little boy never ate the crust of his pizza.	
degrade	làm mất phẩm giá	To degrade someone means to cause people to have shame. The teacher degraded Bob when she announced his poor performance to the class	
entitle	đặt tựa đề, đặt tên cho (sách…)	To entitle someone means to give them the rights to have or do something.His golden ticket entitled him to sit in the front row at the concert.	
escort	người hộ tống, đoàn hộ tống; người tùy tùng; đoàn tùy tùng	To escort people means to safely accompany them to a place. Her bodyguards escorted her to the movie theater.	
external	ngoài, ở bên ngoài	When something is external, it is connected to an outer part. It is warm inside my house, but the external temperature is freezing.	
facility	năng khiếu	A facility is a building that exists for a particular purpose. There are many educational facilities in big cities.	
faculty	khả năng	A faculty is a mental or physical ability.The boy's mental faculties impressed all of his teachers.	
heap	đống	A heap of things is a large pile of them. After the building was torn down, all that was left was a heap of bricks.	
hemisphere	bán cầu	A hemisphere is one half of the earth.In the northern hemisphere, the weather is usually warmest in July and August.	
hound	chó săn	A hound is a type of dog that is often used for racing or hunting. The men took their hounds with them when they went on the hunting trip.	
impersonal	không có cá tính con người, không tình cảm	If something is impersonal, it is not friendly and makes people feel unimportant. The boy felt scared on his first day at the big, impersonal high school.	
ornament	sự trang hoàng; sự trang trí	An ornament is an attractive object that people display in their homes. The woman kept some colorful ornaments on the shelves.	
pedestrian	người đi bộ, khách bộ hành	A pedestrian is a person who is walking on a street. Cars should be careful when pedestrians are walking around.	
sanctuary	khu bảo tồn động vật, nơi linh thiêng	A sanctuary is a place where people in danger can go to be safe. The church was made into a sanctuary for homeless people in the winter.	
spectator	khán giả	A spectator is someone who watches something, especially a sports event. There were thousands of spectators at the big game.	
asset	phẩm chất có giá trị, tài năng có giá trị; vốn quý	An asset is a skill or quality that is useful or valuable. The coach realized the boy's speed was an asset to the team.	
aspect	mặt, phương diện	An aspect is one part or feature of something. I thought about the different aspects of owning two dogs.	
Braille	hệ thống chữ Braille (chữ nổi cho người mù)	Braille is a system of raised patterns on paper that allows the blind to read.The boy enjoyed reading his favorite books written in Braille.	
bud	chồi, nụ, lộc	A bud is a part of a plant that turns into a flower or a leaf.Two weeks after planting the seed, a small bud appeared.	
coordinate	điều phối	To coordinate things is to make different parts work together. Each skating team had to coordinate their movements for the show.	
disprove	bác bỏ, bác	To disprove something means to show that it is not true. The scientist disproved the theory that the sun moved around the Earth.	
humanitarian	[mang tính] nhân đạo	If something is humanitarian, it is connected to helping people's lives. After the flood, several humanitarian organizations offered help.	
hypothesis	giả thuyết	A hypothesis is an idea for something that has not been proved yet.The teacher did an experiment to prove whether his hypothesis was right.	
imprint	in vết, in dấu ấn vào	An imprint is an effect or lesson from an experience that is hard to forget. The experience ofwarleftan imprint on his mind that troubled him.	
informative	cung cấp nhiều thông tin bổ ích	When something is informative, it provides a lot of information. The travel guide had a lot of informative facts about the region.	
optic	[thuộc] mắt;[thuộc] thị giác	When something is optic, it relates to the eyes or light. Her blindness was caused by a problem with her optic nerve.	
premise	giả thuyết	A premise is an idea on which something is based.The premise of the movie that Bobbi and I watched was unrealistic.	
rack	giá, giàn (thường trong từ ghép)	A rack is an object with shelves that holds things. He stored his tools on a rack.	
Renaissance	sự phục hưng (văn học, nghệ thuật…)	The Renaissance was a period between the 14th and 17th centuries. Leonardo Da Vinci was a popular artist of the Renaissance.	
revere	tôn sùng, sùng kính	To revere something is to admire it greatly. The students revere their teacher, who has taught them a lot.	
simultaneous	đồng thời, cùng lúc	When something is simultaneous, it occurs at the same time as something else.The movement of the gears inside the watch was simultaneous.	
skeptic	người hoài nghi	A skeptic is a person who does not believe something. The scientist showed the skeptic that dinosaurs did exist by providing evidence.	
spatial	[thuộc] không gian	When something is spatial, it relates to the position and size of things. He was asked where the books were located to test his spatial ability.	
specify	nêu rõ, chỉ rõ, định rõ	To specify is to describe something clearly. The poster didn't specify where the concert was taking place.	
wax	sáp	Wax is a substance that is slightly shiny and melts when heated.The candles are made of wax.	
accessory	đồ phụ tùng	An accessory is a thing that is added to another thing to make it look better. The store sold colorful accessories like bags, sunglasses, and makeup.	
acquisition	sự đạt được, sự thu được	An acquisition is something that a person buys or gets in some way.Marty was happy with his new acquisition: a very fast bicycle.	
adequate	đủ, đầy đủ	When something is adequate, it is good enough for something else.Without adequate notice of the road block, they will have to turn around.	
cardboard	bìa cứng, các	tông	Cardboard is a material made out of stiff paper. It is often used to make boxes. We packed our things into cardboard boxes and moved to our new home.	
dilemma	thế lưỡng nan, thế khó xử	A dilemma is a difficult situation in which a choice has to be made. Choosing either the tastier or healthier drink proved to be quite a dilemma.	
elaborate	tỉ mỉ, công phu; chi tiết; trau chuốt	When something is elaborate, it contains a lot of details. She gave the teacher an elaborate explanation of her project.	
facilitate	làm cho dễ dàng, tạo điều kiện dễ dàng	To facilitate something is to make it easier. To facilitate the meeting, Melissa used a simple computer program.	
fleet	hạm đội	A fleet is a group of ships. The fleet of ships spent a few days at the dock.	
grid	lưới sắt	A grid is a pattern of squares with numbers and letters to find places on a map.We located our town using the grid.	
import	có tầm quan trọng, hệ trọng, nhập khẩu	To import means to bring in a product from another country. Foods that have been imported are usually more expensive.	
infer	suy diễn, suy ra	To infer something is to decide it is true based on other information one has. By the position of the sun in the sky, she inferred that it was noon.	
inflate	thổi phồng, làm tự mãn	To inflate something means to fill it up with air.I helped him inflate the balloons.	
innate	bẩm sinh	When something is innate, it is something that one is born with, it is not learned. He had the innate desire to please his teachers.	
marble	đá cẩm thạch	Marble is a type of rock that feels cold and is smooth when cut. The large house had floors made of marble.	
mast	cột buồm	A mast is a long pole on a ship that holds the sail. The mast held both sails of the ship upright.	
nausea	sự buồn nôn	Nausea is the feeling of being sick to your stomach. The doctor said the medicine would help get rid of her nausea.	
naval	[thuộc] hải quân	When something is naval, it relates to a country's navy or military ships. The country sent all of its naval forces to protect them.	
pouch	túi	A pouch is a small, flexible bag that is usually made of cloth. I keep my money in a small pouch.	
saturated	(thường vị ngữ)ướt đẫm, ướt sũng	If something is saturated, it is completely wet. Leigh's hair became saturated in the rain storm.	
updated	cập nhật, hiện đại hóa	An update is an act of making something more modern. I'm doing an update on my personal phone directory.	
addict	người nghiện	An addict is a person who cannot stop doing or having something. She was a coffee addict. She had more than three cups each day.	
archeological	khảo cổ học	When something is archeological, it relates to archeology. They found archeological evidence that proved an ancient species of man.	
archeology	khảo cổ học	Archeology is the study of ancient people through their artifacts. He studied archeology to learn more about ancient Egyptian culture.	
brainstorm	động não	To brainstorm is to have a lot of ideas about a certain topic. The students met after school to brainstorm ideas for their assignment.	
budget	ngân sách	A budget is the amount of money available to spend on something. His budget for food was very tight.	
chaotic	hỗn loạn	When something is chaotic, it is crazy, confused, and hectic. The first day of school can be chaotic for a new student.	
cite	trích dẫn	To cite something is to mention it as an example or as proof of something. She cited six reasons that the school needed to build new classrooms.	
correspond	trao đổi thư tín	To correspond is to match or to be similar to something. The boy's story didn't correspond with his mother's version.	
courtyard	sân	A courtyard is an outdoor area that is surrounded by the walls of a building. During the summer, the courtyard is a nice place to have lunch.	
estate	bất động sản	An estate is a large area of land owned by a family or organization. He lived on his father's estate in the country.	
fraud	gian lận	Fraud is the crime of gaining money by lying or by tricking people. Experts say that credit card fraud increases around the holidays.	
hydrogen	hydro	Hydrogen is a gas that has no taste, color, or smell. Balloons filled with hydrogen can easily float away if you aren't careful.	
integrity	chính trực	Integrity is honesty and good morals.The principal had a lot of integrity.	
knit	Đan	To knit is to make fabric by connecting strings together.My grandmother knitted me a sweater.	
outlook	quan điểm	An outlook is a person's opinion or way of thinking about something. He changed his outlook about rats after he read a book about them.	
parachute	[cái] dù (để nhảy từ trên máy bay xuống)	A parachute is a device that helps people and things fall to the ground safely. They used parachutes dropped from airplanes to send supplies to the civilians.	
prehistoric	[thuộc] tiền sử	When something is prehistoric, it is from a time when there was no written history. The scientists found prehistoric pots used by the people in the area.	
proponent	người ủng hộ (một học thuyết, một sự nghiệp)	A proponent is a person who supports an idea or a plan.He was a proponent of using environmentally friendly products.	
refine	lọc	To refine something is to make it better by making changes.The principal refined his method of controlling students over the years.	
restrict	hạn chế	To restrict is to limit something and prevent it from getting bigger. The club restricted the amount of members.	
attorney	luật sư	An attorney is one who gives others advice about the law.The attorney appeared in front of the judge for me.	
chronic	mãn tính	When something is chronic, it happens over and over again over time. He had chronic pain in his chest and needed to see a doctor.	
discipline	kỷ luật	Discipline is training that helps people follow the rules. One of the teacher's jobs is to teach her students discipline.	
donor	nhà tài trợ	A donor is somebody who gives something to an organization. He was proud to be a blood donor.	
fellow	đồng bào	A fellow is someone who shares a job or quality with someone else. All of my fellow patients at the hospital have also complained about the food.	
gossip	chuyện ngồi lê đôi mách	Gossip is information that might be untrue but is still discussed anyway. The friends exchanged gossip about the people they knew in school.	
graduate	người tốt nghiệp đại học (với bằng cử nhân)	To graduate from a school means to complete and pass all courses of study there.At the end of the spring, my friends and I will graduate from high school.	
graffiti	hình vẽ lên tường (thường có tính chất hài hước, tục tĩu…)	Graffiti is words or drawings in public places. The wall was covered with colorful graffiti.	
guardian	người gác, người bảo vệ	A guardian is someone who protects somebody or something. The librarians are the guardians of the books.	
implicate	làm cho liên can vào; làm cho dính liếu vào	To implicate someone is to show that they have done a crime or something bad. The man was implicated in the theft at the store.	
kin	gia đình và bà con họ hàng	Kin is a person's family and relatives. His kin were all farmers.	
referee	(cũng khẩu ngữ ref) trọng tài (bóng đá, quyền Anh)	A referee is a person who makes sure that the rules are followed in sports. The soccer player didn't agree with the referee.	
sever	cắt đứt	To sever something is to cut through it completely.He severed the string using scissors.	
shaft	cán (giáo, búa…)	A shaft is a handle of a tool or weapon. The golf club had a long wooden shaft that he held in his hands.	
stab	đâm	To stab means to cut someone or something with a sharp object like a knife. He stabbed the fork into the potato and passed it to his daughter.	
stimulus	tác nhân kích thích, nhân tố kích thích	A stimulus is something that causes growth or activity.Having a lot of money is a stimulus for people to buy more things.	
suspicion	sự nghi ngờ; sự tình nghi; mối nghi ngờ	A suspicion is a feeling that something is possible or true in a crime. The police had a suspicion that the driver had stolen the purse.	
terminate	kết thúc, chấm dứt	To terminate something means to stop or end it.The trip was terminated after the car broke down.	
theme	chủ đề, đề tài	A theme is the main subject of a book, movie, or painting. The students discussed the book's theme in class.	
tuition	(khẩu ngữ) sự dạy học; sự kèm học (một số học sinh)	Tuition is the amount of money paid to go to a school. University tuitions have increased by fifty percent in the last five years.	
aggressive	tấn công	If someone is aggressive, then they constantly want to fight.•Nobody liked to play games with him because he was always too aggressive.	
amnesty	sự ân xá (thường là cho tội phạm chống lại nhà nước)	Amnesty is a pardon given to prisoners of war.She was denied amnesty for her involvement in the war.	
arena	trường đấu (La Mã)	An arena is a building where people can watch sports and concerts.•The new arena was all set to hold the championship match.	
auditorium	phòng thính giả; phòng nghe nhạc	An auditorium is a large building used for public events.People have gathered at the school auditorium to watch the play.	
captive	bị giam cầm	A captive is a prisoner. The guards told the captive that there was no way he could escape the prison.	
combat	trận đấu, trận đánh, trận chiến đấu	Combat is fighting between two people or groups. The two warriors were locked in combat.	
commonplace	tầm thường, chẳng có gì đặc biệt	If something is commonplace, then it is ordinary. There is nothing commonplace about the way Morris dresses.	
compound	hợp chất	A compound is an enclosed area such as a prison or factory. The workers waited outside the compound for the gates to the factory to open.	
corps	(quân đội) quân đòan	A corps is a division of a military force. The army had a corps of archers who trained apart from the regular soldiers.	
distract	làm sao lãng, làm lơ đãng	To distract someone means to stop them from concentrating on something. The phone call distracted him so much that he forgot all about his homework.	
dumb	(thường vị ngữ) im lặng, không nói	If someone is dumb, they are unable to speak. She did not share the secret. She remained silent as if she were dumb.	
foe	kẻ thù	A foe is an enemy or opponent.It was hard to believe that anyone could be his foe.	
hack	(+ at) đốn, đẽo, nhặt, chém	To hack something means to cut it into uneven pieces. My uncle used the ax to hack the tree into many logs.	
meditate	(+on, upon) suy ngẫm, trầm tư	To meditate means to focus or think deeply in silence.She liked to meditate for several hours of each day.	
nick	khấc, khá	To nick someone means to cut them slightly with a sharp object. While cutting the carrots, the cook nicked his finger with the edge of his knife.	
provoke	khiêu khích, trêu chọc	To provoke someone means to annoy them on purpose to cause violence.The older boy provoked Paul by calling him mean names.	
realm	(tu từ) vương quốc	A realm is any area of activity or interest. He was not very active in the realm of business.	
reign	triều đại, triều	A reign is the period of time in which a ruler rules. The emperor's reign lasted for only two years.	
rust	gỉ, han (sắt)	Rust is a red and brown coating on iron objects caused by water and air. The old metal gate would not swing because the hinges were covered in rust.	
sacred	[thuộc] thần, [thuộc] thần thánh; thiêng liêng	If something is sacred, then it is worshipped and respected. One religion in India will not harm cows because it believes that they are sacred.	
accordingly	[sao] cho phù hợp	If someone acts accordingly, they act in a way that is suitable. He feels like he did a good job, and his boss should pay him accordingly.	
anchor	cái neo [thuyền]	An anchor is a heavy object dropped from a boat to make it stay in one place. When the ship reached its destination, the crew dropped the anchor.	
buoy	cái phao	A buoy is a floating sign that warns boats of dangerous areas. Don't steer the boat near those buoys. There are rocks underneath the water.	
catastrophe	thảm họa	A catastrophe is an unexpected event that causes great suffering or damage.It was a catastrophe for my family when my dad lost his job.	
context	ngữ cảnh	Context is the situations that form the background of an event. They studied the context of the battle before giving their presentation.	
designate	được chỉ định, được bổ nhiệm (nhưng chưa chính thức nhận chức)	To designate someone or something means to give them a particular description. The famous lighthouse was designated a historical monument.	
distort	làm méo mó	To distort something means to lie about it. His lawyer distorted the facts so that he would be set free.	
dock	vũng tàu đậu	A dock is an enclosed area where ships go to be loaded, unloaded, and repaired. The huge ship pulled into the dock, and the crew unloaded the cargo.	
fore	mũi tàu (tàu thủy, tàu hỏa, máy bay)	The fore of something is the front part of it. The teacher's desk is at the fore of the classroom.	
frequent	thường xuyên, hay xảy ra	If something is frequent, then it happens or is done often. While Dad was sick, the doctor made frequent visits to his house.	
genuine	thật (không phải giả), đích thực	When something is genuine, it is true or real.After the painting was determined to be genuine, it sold for a million dollars.	
grease	mỡ động vật	Grease is an oily substance put on moving parts, so they work smoothly. When I was done working on the car, I had grease all over my hands.	
intricate	rắc rối, phức tạp	When something is intricate, it has many small parts or details.The intricate painting on the quilt was very lovely.	
offset	bù lại; bù đắp	To offset means to use one thing to cancel out the effect of another thing. Increased wages are offset by higher prices for goods.	
overlap	gối lên	To overlap something means to cover a piece of it. The gift on top overlaps the other gift on the bottom.	
precipitate	thúc gấp, đẩy nhanh, làm sớm đến	To precipitate an event means to cause it to happen sooner than normal. The violent attack precipitated an all-out war.	
secondhand	cũ; mua lại (về quần áo, sách vở)	When something is secondhand, it has been owned by someone else.Her secondhand jeans were a bit faded in the front.	
slot	khe, rãnh	A slot is a narrow opening in a machine or container. To operate the machine, put your coins into the slot.	
submerge	lặn; nhận mình	To submerge something means to put it below the surface of a liquid. The whale submerged its huge body into the ocean.	
tactic	phương sách	A tactic is a careful plan to achieve something.•Sam thought of a good tactic in order to attract more business.	
aggregate	tổng số lên tới	When a number is aggregate, it is made up of smaller amounts added together. The company totaled its aggregate sales for the entire year.	
antibiotic	thuốc kháng sinh	An antibiotic is a medical drug used to kill bacteria and treat infections. The doctor gave me a shot of an antibiotic when I got the flu.	
circuit	chu vi, vòng	A circuit is a piece of an electronic device that allows electricity to flow.Be very careful not to shock yourself when fixing an electrical circuit.	
complement	phần bổ sung	To complement something or someone is to make them better. The wool scarf complemented her lovely eyes.	
compress	nén, ép	To compress something means to press or squeeze it so that it takes up less space. I compressed my clothes to fit into a single suitcase.	
database	căn cứ dữ liệu, cơ sở dữ liệu	A database is a collection of data that is stored in a computer. The company has a database of all the names and accounts of their customers.	
equivalent	tương đương	An equivalent is an amount or value that is the same as another amount or value. I worked the equivalent of sixty hours this week.	
immune	(+ to, against) miễn dịch	When someone is immune to a disease, they cannot be affected by it.Children usually get shots to make them immune to certain diseases.	
input	sự đưa vào, sự đặt vào; vật đưa vào	Input is information that is put into a computer. Type the input into the computer program.	
intimate	thân thiết, mật thiết	When a relationship is intimate, the two things are very closely connected. I only tell my secrets to my most intimate friends.	
magnet	(+for, to) cái thu hút	A magnet is a piece of iron or other material which attracts iron toward it. I used a magnet to pick up the nails that were scattered on the floor.	
metabolism	sự trao đổi chất	A person's metabolism is the way chemical processes in their body use energy.If you exercise every day, your metabolism speeds up.	
microchip	chip, microchip	A microchip is a small device inside a computer that holds information.I can put more data on my computer if I buy a more powerful microchip.	
phase	pha, kỳ	A phase is a stage in a process or the gradual development of something. The first phase in the recycling project involves finding volunteers to help out.	
pinch	véo, bẹo, cấu	To pinch means to take a piece of skin between one's fingers and squeeze. I pinched my nose, so I couldn't smell the odor from the garbage.	
prevalent	phổ biến, thịnh hành	When something is prevalent, it is common. Growing a beard is more prevalent behavior in men than women.	
quantum	lượng tử	When something is quantum, it relates to the behavior of atomic particles. The physics student studied quantum mechanics.	
ratio	tỷ lệ	A ratio is a relationship between two things expressed in numbers or amounts.The boy to girl ratio is one to three.	
spiral	xoắn ốc; xoáy ốc	A spiral is a shape which winds round and round in a larger and larger circle.A strand ofDNA looks like two interlocking spirals.	
viral	[thuộc] virut; do vi	rut	When something is viral, it is a disease or infection that is caused by a virus.The girl was in bed fora week when she had a viral infection.	
astounded	kinh ngạc	If you are astounded, you are very surprised. I was astounded that Monica won the art competition.	
attribute	thuộc tính	An attribute is a characteristic of a person or thing. He isn't very clever, but he does have some other positive attributes.	
bilingual	nói thạo hai thứ tiếng	If someone is bilingual, then they can speak two languages. Since you already know English, after learning French you'll be bilingual.	
clone	(sinh học) dòng vô tính, hình ảnh sao chép; mẫu sao chép	A clone is an identical copy of a living creature. Scientists recently made a clone of a sheep.	
colloquial	thông tục (từ, cụm từ)	Colloquial describes informal words that are more suitable for speech than writing. I find it difficult to understand people if they use colloquial language.	
cosmetics	mỹ phẩm	Cosmetics are substances that make the face and skin more beautiful. Girls often look nicer when they don't use so many cosmetics.	
dash	sự lao tới, sự xông tới	To dash means to run or move quickly. Helen dashed up the stairs, so she wouldn't be late for her appointment.	
disgust	sự ghê tởm, sự kinh tởm	Disgust is a feeling of distaste and anger caused by something rude or unpleasant.He felt disgust toward his date because she had such terrible eating habits.	
fluorescent	huỳnh quang	If something is fluorescent, it is such a bright color that it seems to give off light.She highlighted the key words in the document with a fluorescent yellow pen.	
furious	[with somebody, at something] giận dữ, điên tiết	If you are furious, you are extremely angry.My father was furious when he read my bad school report.	
gulf	vịnh	A gulf is a gap between people who do not understand each other. There has been a gulf between James and Tony since their parents died.	
humanities	nhân loại, loài người	Humanities are subjects which analyze human ideas, such as history and literature. Jennifer has always been more interested in humanities than science.	
knot	nút thắt, gút	A knot is made when you tie the ends of rope or cord together. He tied a knot in his shoelaces, so they wouldn't come off during the race.	
linguist	nhà ngôn ngữ học	A linguist is someone who studies languages. Tony is a good linguist and speaks four different languages.	
participant	người tham gia, người tham dự	A participant is someone who joins in a social event or competition.There were thousands of participants in this year's marathon.	
plausible	có vẻ hợp lý; tin được	If something is plausible, it is reasonable or possible. It is plausible that Jack isn't here today because he is sick.	
ritual	trình tự hành lễ; nghi lễ	A ritual is a formal custom that people do regularly. Ken was very interested to learn about the religious rituals of the natives.	
sibling	anh ruột; chị ruột; em ruột	A sibling is a brother or sister.Jane has two siblings, an older brother and a younger sister.	
skinny	gầy giơ xương, gầy nhom	If someone is skinny, they are extremely thin. Polly is very skinny. I think she needs to eat more.	
vague	mập mờ, mơ hồ	If something is vague, it is not clear, and it gives very few details. I asked him about his mother's health, but he was very vague about it.	
acid	chất chua	An acid is a chemical that can burn or dissolve other substances.In chemistry class, we mixed two acids together and watched the reaction.	
administration	sự thi hành, sự thực hiện	An administration is the group of people who manage a company or organization. She hoped she could be promoted to a job in the administration.	
administrative	[thuộc] quản trị, [thuộc] hành chính	Administrative describes anything related to managing a company or organization. I work as an administrative assistant to the owner of the company.	
biotechnology	công nghệ sinh học	Biotechnology is the use of living parts, such as cells, in industry and technology. Researchers at the biotechnology company use bacteria to make medicine.	
cholesterol	(hóa học, y học) cholesterol	Cholesterol is a substance in fat, tissues, and blood of all animals. When people have too much cholesterol, they are at a high risk for heart problems.	
coalition	sự liên hiệp	A coalition is a group of people or organizations working for a common purpose. The companies formed a coalition to make trade less expensive.	
deceptive	dối trá, lừa dối; làm cho lầm lẫn	When something is deceptive, it encourages one to believe something that is false. The scary-looking man's appearance is deceptive, but he is actually very nice.	
diabetes	bệnh đái đường	Diabetes is a medical condition where a person has too much sugar in their blood.Overweight people are more likely to suffer from diabetes than slimmer ones.	
eliminate	loại ra, loại bỏ	To eliminate something that is unwanted means to completely remove it. Wearing a seatbelt eliminates some of the dangers of driving a car.	
erosion	sự ăn mòn, sự xói mòn	Erosion is the destruction of rock or soil due to flowing water or weather. Canyons are formed because rivers of fast-moving water caused erosion.	
ethics	đạo đức, luân thường đạo lý	Ethics are moral beliefs or rules about right or wrong. The act of stealing certainly doesn't go against some people's ethics.	
explicit	rõ ràng; rành mạch	If something is explicit, it is very clear, open, and truthful. The man gave a very explicit account of the car accident.	
framework	khung	A framework is a set of rules or ideas that people use to solve problems.His ideas fit into the framework of a successful business plan.	
manufacture	chế tạo, sản xuất	To manufacture something means to make it in a factory. My father's company manufactures steel building materials.	
mechanism	máy móc, bộ máy	A mechanism is a part of a machine that performs a certain function. I can't open my car door because the locking mechanism is broke.	
minimize	giảm đến mức tối thiểu	To minimize means to reduce something to the lowest possible level. I checked my homework twice to minimize errors I might have made.	
nectar	(thực vật) mật hoa	Nectar is a sweet liquid produced by flowers that bees and other insects collect. Bees use nectar to make their honey.	
notion	khái niệm; ý niệm	A notion is an idea or belief about something. I have a notion that this route would get us to the beach.	
prone	sấp, úp sấp	When things are prone to some bad thing, they are likely affected by it. Some people are more prone to catching colds than others.	
straightforward	thẳng thắn, thật thà, chân thật	When something is straightforward, it is good because it is easy to understand. The teacher's grading system was straightforward and fair.	
astronomical	[thuộc] thiên văn học	If something is astronomical, then it is extremely large.It's an astronomical distance between the Milky Way galaxy and the nearest galaxy.	
atom	nguyên tử	An atom is the smallest unit of a substance. A molecule consists of a combination of two or more atoms.	
breadth	bề ngang, bề rộng	Breadth is the distance from one side to the other side of something. The breadth of the northern wall of the house is twenty meters.	
circumference	chu vi	A circumference is the distance completely around a circular object. The circumference of the Earth is obviously much larger than a baseball's.	
comet	sao chổi	A comet is an object in space made of ice and rock with a tail of glowing dust. Comets take many decades to complete an orbit around a star.	
crater	miệng núi lửa	A crater is a large hole in a planet's or moon's surface. They could clearly see the big crater on the moon through the telescope.	
crescent	hình lưỡi liềm; vật hình lưỡi liềm	A crescent is the curved shape lit on the moon's face during its early and late stages. Ten days ago the entire moon was bright, but now only a small crescent is shining.	
debris	mảnh vỡ, mảnh vụn; đống đổ nát	Debris is the small pieces scattered from something wrecked or destroyed.The debris from the cube scattered on the floor.	
despair	sự thất vọng, sự tuyệt vọng; nỗi thất vọng, nỗi tuyệt vọng	Despair is the complete loss of hope.After the other company won the account, our salespeople were filled with despair.	
embed	ăn sâu, cắm chặt	To embed something means to place it firmly within a surrounding thing.The logger embedded the ax into the wood after chopping several logs.	
fragment	mảnh vỡ, mảnh	A fragment is a small part of something.After the light broke, there were fragments of glass to clean up.	
galaxy	Thiên hà	A galaxy is any extremely large collection of star systems. Our solar system is located in the outer area of our galaxy.	
gigantic	kếch xù, cực lớn	If something is gigantic, then it is extremely large. Some dinosaurs were so gigantic that they were the size of buildings.	
gloom	bóng tối, sự u sầu	Gloom is a state of being almost completely dark. In the gloom of the morning, it was difficult to see the boat on the lake.	
radiate	toả ra	To radiate means to send out energy or heat. The heat from the fireplace radiated throughout the room.	
roam	đi chơi rong, đi lang thang	To roam means to move around without a plan or purpose. All day the cows roamed around the field eating grass.	
solitary	đơn độc, cô đơn	If something is solitary, then it is lonely or the only one. The only thing in the room was a solitary chair.	
spectrum	quang phổ, phổ	The spectrum is the full range of color ranging from red to violet. You can see the entire spectrum in a rainbow.	
sphere	khối cầu, hình cầu	A sphere is a three-dimensional round shape, like a ball. The balloons were inflated into a variety of colorful spheres.	
status	địa vị, cương vị	Status is the position of something or someone in relation to others. She had achieved the status of being the smartest girl in the class.	
bankrupt	người vỡ nợ, người phá sản	If someone is bankrupt, then they are unable to pay their debts. The store had few customers and soon went bankrupt.	
conform	hợp với; tuân theo	To conform to rules or laws is to obey them. The new student had to conform to the school's dress code.	
employ	thuê làm, nhận vào làm	To employ someone means to give work to them. The bookstore employed two full-time clerks.	
expel	đuổi, trục xuất	To expel someone means to force them to leave a place. Since he would not follow the rules, the principal had to expel the student.	
extension	sự kéo dài, sự mở rộng	An extension is a part added to something to give it more time or space. My parents decided to add an extension to our house for the new baby.	
forthcoming	sắp đến, sắp tới	If something is forthcoming, then it is about to happen in the future. Some economists predicted that the forthcoming world economy would be severe.	
furnish	trang bị đồ đạc cho	To furnish means to put furniture in a house or room. Most homes are furnished with tables, chairs, and beds.	
hygiene	vệ sinh	Hygiene is the conditions or methods needed for health and cleanliness.People who brush their teeth at least twice a day are practicing good hygiene.	
hygienic	[hợp] vệ sinh	If something is hygienic, then it is clean and unlikely to cause disease. My sister works very hard to keep her entire home as hygienic as possible.	
landlord	ông chủ nhà (nhà cho thuê)	A landlord is a man who rents property to a person. The landlord collected everyone's rent money on the first day of every month.	
lease	hợp đồng cho thuê (nhà, đất)	To lease means to rent property, usually an apartment or land. When the family first leased the apartment, the rent was very low.	
mandatory	bắt buộc	If something is mandatory, then it is required by law. It's mandatory that everyone be at least sixteen to drive a car in the US.	
mend	sửa chữa, vá	To mend something means to fix it when it is broken or damaged.Mother mended the rip in my pants with a piece of cloth.	
mortgage	sự cầm cố, sự thế chấp	A mortgage is a loan for property, especially homes and businesses. When they bought their new home, the married couple had to sign a mortgage.	
personnel	(động từ số nhiều) nhân viên	Personnel are employees in a business. When business increased, we had to hire more personnel.	
plumbing	hệ thống ống nước (trong một ngôi nhà)	Plumbing is the system of pipes used in a home to supply water. When the plumbing stopped working, no one was allowed to use the toilets.	
tenant	người thuê, người mướn (nhà, đất)	A tenant is a person who rents property from a landlord. The new tenants moved into the house across the street.	
trendy	thời thượng	If something is trendy, then it is very popular and new. Carlo bought a trendy new car.	
utility	sự có ích, tính hữu dụng	A utility is a business that supplies services such as water or electricity. If you don't pay the utilities, you may have your electricity turned off.	
whereby	nhờ đó	Whereby means by which or through which. The mayor had a new bridge built whereby the citizens could cross the river.	
aesthetic	thẩm mỹ	If something is aesthetic, then it is concerned with a love of beauty. The dresses were noteworthy for their aesthetic design.	
arrogant	ngạo nghễ, ngạo mạn	If someone is arrogant, they think that they are more important than others. He is very arrogant. Even though he's not the boss, he tells everyone what to do.	
bias	thiên kiến, khuynh hướng thiên về	A bias is a person's likelihood to like one thing more than another thing. The mothers had a natural bias for their own child's picture.	
canyon	hẻm núi	A canyon is a narrow valley with steep walls through which a river often flows. The canyon was so deep that the ground inside was covered in shadow.	
creek	(từ Mỹ) sông con, nhánh sông	A creek is a stream or small river. Only small fish lived in the shallow waters of the creek.	
drill	mũi khoan; máy khoan	A drill is a tool with a point that spins in order to make a hole. The carpenter used the drill to make several holes in the wood.	
executive	điều hành (đặc biệt là trong kinh doanh)	An executive is the top manager of a business.After twenty years at the company, he finally became the executive.	
fatigue	sự mệt mỏi, sự mệt nhọc	Fatigue is a feeling of extreme tiredness. After three days with little sleep, she was feeling a lot of fatigue.	
incline	nghiêng	An incline is a sharp rise in something, especially a hill or mountain.This mountain has one of the steepest inclines in the world.	
nasty	khó chịu; kinh tởm	If something is nasty, then it is not nice or pleasant.The rotten apple left a nasty taste inside her mouth.	
perceive	thấy; nhận thấy; cảm nhận	To perceive something means to be aware of it.He was talking loudly, so he did not perceive that the music had stopped.	
primate	primate	A primate is a type of mammal that includes monkeys, apes, and humans. Primates use their hands for such tasks as swinging from branches.	
primitive	nguyên thủy	If something is primitive, then it is simple, basic, and not very developed. The computers of the 1980s are primitive compared to those of todays.	
stereotype	khuôn mẫu	A stereotype is a general but often incorrect idea about a person or thing.• There's a stereotype that pigs are dirty animals. But they are rather clean.	
sticky	dính	If something is sticky, then it is covered with a substance that things stick to. Place the sticky part of the tape against the paper, so it will cling to the wall.	
termite	con mối	A termite is an insect that lives in groups and feeds on wood.The wood we found was full of termites.	
thereby	bằng cách ấy	If something happens thereby an action, then it is the result of that action. He didn't score a goal, thereby ending his chance at setting a record.	
trail	đường mòn	A trail is a path through a wild area. A narrow trail cut through the field and over the hills.	
twig	cành cây	A twig is a short and thin branch from a tree or bush. They started the fire with a handful of dry twigs.	
welfare	phúc lợi	Welfare is the health and happiness of a person or group. Having plenty of clean water is necessary for the welfare of people.	
behalf	thay mặt	If something is done on one's behalf, it is done for that person by another.The original speaker was sick, so his son gave the speech on his behalf.	
flap	đập nhẹ	To flap means to move quickly up and down or from side to side. The tiny bird flapped its wings and ate from the flowers.	
glacier	sông băng	A glacier is a large piece of ice that moves very slowly. The North Pole is covered by a huge glacier.	
globe	quả địa cầu	The globe refers to the Earth. Water covers most of the globe.	
horizontal	ngang	When something is horizontal, it is flat and level with the ground.The Russian flag has three horizontal stripes of white, blue, and red.	
hum	ngân nga	To hum means to make a low, continuous noise. The man hummed his favorite song.	
inventory	hàng tồn kho	An inventory is a supply of something. Gwen was checking the inventory to make sure we had what we needed.	
inward	hướng nội	If a thought or feeling is inward, it is not expressed or shown to others. She had an inward feeling of guilt when she lied to her mother.	
loaf	ổ bánh mì	A loaf of bread is bread shaped and baked in one piece. Could you please buy a loaf of bread for sandwiches?	
oracle	nhà tiên tri	An oracle is person who speaks with gods and gives advice about the future. The king went to the oracle to ask if going to war was a good idea.	
orbit	quỹ đạo	To orbit something means to move around it in a continuous, curving path. The moon orbits the Earth.	
overview	Tổng quat	An overview is a general description of a situation. My brother gave me an overview of the important parts of the book.	
preview	xem trước	A preview is an opportunity to see something before it is available to the public.The band played us a preview of their new song.	
previous	Trước	If something is previous, then it happened earlier in time or order. He turned back to the previous page to read the paragraph again.	
provide	cung cấp	To provide something means to supply it.Each student was provided with a test and three sharp pencils.	
recur	tái phát	To recur means to happen more than once.Burglaries seem to recur over and over in our neighborhood.	
relevant	liên quan, thích hợp	When something is relevant, it is important to a certain person or situation. The thirty-year-old book about politics is still relevant to our society today.	
rite	nghi thức	A rite is a traditional ceremony carried out by a particular group or society. Special masks are worn during the rite when a new baby is born.	
stall	ngăn cản	To stall means to stop a process and continue it at a later time.If you give the car a push, it won't stall.	
supernatural	siêu nhiên	If something is supernatural, it is not real or explainable by natural law. The dragon had supernatural powers such as flying and breathing fire.	
adapt	phỏng theo	To adapt means to change in order to deal with a new situation or addition. When he went to the new town, he had to adapt to all the weather changes.	
biological	sinh học	Biological describes the process of life and living things. In science, we learned about the biological process of bacterial growth.	
cellular	di động	When something is cellular, it relates to the cells of animals or plants. She used a microscope to see the activity at a cellular level.	
dynamic	năng động	When people are dynamic, they are lively and have creative ideas. The new, dynamic employee came up with a good way to juggle his work load.	
fantasy	tưởng tượng	A fantasy is a pleasant situation that people think about but is unlikely to happen.Becoming an astronaut is a fantasy shared by many children.	
heredity	di truyền	Heredity is the process of passing on features from parents to children. The boy's face is similar to his father's because of heredity.	
internal	nội bộ	When something is internal, it exists or happens inside a person, object, or place.We removed the outer case to reveal the computer's internal wires.	
minimal	tối thiểu	When something is minimal, it is very small. My lazy husband does a minimal amount of work around the house.	
pioneer	tiên phong	A pioneer is a person who is the first to discover or be involved in something. He was a pioneer of computer programming.	
prescribe	kê đơn	To prescribe medicine means to tell someone to take it. When I was sick, the doctor prescribed me flu medicine.	
respective	tương ứng	When things are respective, they relate separately to each person just mentioned.The boxers were told to return to their respective corners.	
revive	hồi sinh	To revive someone or something means to restore health or life to them.She revived the feeling of warmth in her leg by rubbing it softly.	
rigid	cứng rắn	When rules or systems are rigid, they are severe because they cannot be changed. Societies often have rigid rules about the way that people are supposed to act.	
sequence	sự nối tiếp	A sequence is a number of events or things that come one after another. The dominos fell in a sequence of one after another.	
substitute	thay thế	To substitute something or someone means to have them take the place of another. When I ran out of juice, I had to substitute water to drink in the morning.	
surgeon	bác sĩ phẫu thuật	A surgeon is a doctor who is trained to do surgery. The surgeon operated on the old man's heart.	
therapy	trị liệu	Therapy is treatment for a particular physical or mental illness or condition. After she broke her legs, she used physical therapy to learn how to walk again.	
transfer	chuyển khoản	To transfer something means to move it from one place to another. The family transferred the groceries from the shopping cart to the car.	
transition	quá độ	A transition is a process where there is a change from one form to another. The weather gets colder during the transition from summer to autumn.	
transplant	cấy	A transplant is an operation in which a damaged part of one's body is replaced.The sick child needed a heart transplant to live.	
aquarium	bể nuôi cá	An aquarium is a building where fish and underwater animals are kept. We took a trip to the aquarium and saw a scary shark.	
arbitrary	Bất kỳ	If something is arbitrary, it is not based on any plan or system, so it seems random. The classroom had many arbitrary rules that made me confused.	
autobiography	hồi ký	An autobiography is a true story of a person's life written by that person.I read an autobiography about my favorite entertainer.	
convention	quy ước	A convention is behavior that is considered to be common or polite. In the US, a popular convention is to shake hands when you meet someone.	
gracious	hòa nhã	If someone is gracious, then they are kind and helpful to those who need it.The operator was gracious enough to help me find his number.	
improve	cải tiến	To improve something means to make it better. He studied hard to improve his test scores from the previous year.	
insulate	cách điện	To insulate something means to protect it from heat, cold, or noise. People can conserve energy by insulating their houses.	
intrigue	âm mưu	To intrigue means to cause an interest in something or someone. Her mysterious past intrigued her new friend.	
longevity	trường thọ	Longevity is the ability to live for a long time.Sea turtles have an amazing longevity.	
misplace	sai chỗ	To misplace something means to lose it. I misplaced my wallet, and I didn't find it until a week later.	
naughty	nghịch ngợm	When children are naughty, they behave badly or do not do what they are told. The boy had to go to his room because he was being naughty.	
norm	định mức	A norm is a way of behaving that is considered normal in a particular society. Wearing a heavy coat all summer is not considered a norm in the desert.	
orangutan	đười ươi	An orangutan is a large ape with red and brown hair and long arms.Orangutans use their long arms to swing from trees.	
overload	quá tải	To overload something means to put more things into it than it is meant to hold. If you overload the truck, it might crash.	
philanthropy	từ thiện	Philanthropy is the act of helping others, without wanting anything in return.The wealthy business owner is well known for his acts of philanthropy.	
probe	thăm dò	To probe into something means to ask questions to discover facts about it. The bank probed into his financial history to see if he qualified for a loan.	
recipient	người nhận (tiền, quà biếu…)	A recipient of something is the person who receives it.I was the recipient of four phone calls today.	
reptile	bò sát	A reptile is a cold	blooded animal that lays eggs and has skin covered with scales. Lizards are my favorite type of reptile.	
thrive	phát triển thịnh vượng, phát đạt	To thrive means to do well and be successful, healthy, or strong.He may be an old man, but he continues to thrive.	
ultimate	sau cùng, cuối cùng, chót	When something is ultimate, it is the final result or aim of a long series of events.By trying hard in school, I will reach my ultimate goal of becoming a doctor.	
antique	cổ xưa, lâu đời	If something is antique, it is very old and rare, and therefore valuable.My grandmother's antique rocking chair is worth a lot of money.	
applicant	người nộp đơn xin, người xin việc	An applicant is someone who writes a request to be considered for a job or prize.Lots of applicants came into the store when the job position became available.	
artifact	đồ tạo tác	An artifact is an old object made by humans that is historically interesting. We studied artifacts from an ancient Chinese settlement.	
authentic	đáng tin, xác thực	When something is authentic, it is not false or a copy of the original. We ate authentic Italian food on our vacation to Rome.	
chronology	niên đại học	The chronology of a series of past events is when they happened. We learned the chronology of World War II in history class.	
diplomat	nhà ngoại giao	A diplomat is a representative of a country who works with another country. The Spanish diplomat discussed trade issues with officials in Peru.	
epic	sử thi	An epic is a long book, poem, or movie about a period of time or a great event. The poet wrote an epic about the great discoveries of the past thousand years.	
excerpt	trích đoạn	An excerpt is a short piece of writing or music taken from a larger piece. I didn't listen to the entire symphony online, but I did play an excerpt.	
fossil	hóa thạch	A fossil is the hard remains of a prehistoric animal or plant. The expert arranged the fossils to build the skeleton of the dinosaur.	
humiliate	làm nhục nhã	To humiliate someone means to make them feel ashamed and embarrassed. I was humiliated when I tripped and fell down in front of the whole school.	
lyric	bài thơ trữ tình, lời ca	When a poem is considered lyric, it is written in a simple and direct style. I enjoy reading and creating my own lyric poetry.	
majesty	vẻ oai phong, vẻ hùng vĩ	Majesty is supreme greatness or authority. You should address the king and queen as your majesty.	
monarch	vua, quốc vương, nữ hoàng	The monarch of a country is the king, queen, emperor, or empress. The monarch lived in a beautiful palace with a grand gate.	
precede	[đi] trước;[đến] trước	To precede something means to come before it. The hurricane was preceded by a moment of still wind and clear sky.	
punctual	đúng hẹn	When someone is punctual, they do something or arrive at the right time. My mother hates being late. She is the most punctual person I know.	
recruit	tân binh, tuyển dụng	To recruit people means to select them to join or work for an organization. We successfully recruited someone to be the new manager.	
refund	hoàn lại	A refund is money given back to a person when an item is returned to a store.I asked for a refund because the shoes I bought were too tight.	
register	sổ, đăng ký	A register is an official list or record of people or things. Ata wedding there is register for all of the guests to sign.	
renown	danh tiếng, tiếng tăm	Renown is the quality of being well known due to having done good things. Michael is a singer of great renown in New Zealand.	
tusk	ngà, răng nanh	A tusk is a long, curved, pointed tooth of an elephant, boar, or walrus.Sadly, some people hunt elephants and remove their tusks to sell them.	
burden	gánh nặng	A burden is a serious or difficult responsibility. Children who do not behave are a burden to their parents.	
compromise	sự thỏa hiệp	To compromise is to agree to something that is not exactly what you want. We both compromised about the game we decided to play.	
craft	nghề thủ công, làm bằng tay	To craft something is to make it using skill. She crafted the bookcase out of solid pine wood and then painted it.	
crook	kẻ lừa đảo, khúc quanh	A crook is someone who is not honest or who commits crimes.The manager was arrested by the police for being a crook.	
currency	tiền tệ, sự thịnh hành	Currency is the form of money used in a certain place. Elizabeth had to exchange her dollars for foreign currency.	
enigma	người khó hiểu, điều bí ẩn	An enigma is someone or something that is mysterious or hard to understand. The theft of the paintings is an enigma to the investigators.	
fragile	mong manh, dễ vỡ	When people or things are fragile, they are not strong and can be damaged easily. The fragile glassware was carefully packed into boxes.	
hybrid	cây lai, vật lai	A hybrid is a mixture of different things or styles. In Greek mythology, a centaur is a hybrid of a man and a horse.	
innocence	sự vô tội	Innocence is a lack of experience of difficult or complex things in life.Everyone who met her found her innocence to be charming.	
merge	hòa lẫn, sát nhập	To merge two things is to combine them into one whole thing. The storm clouds merged into one large menacing cloud that filled the sky.	
moderate	ôn hòa, vừa phải	When something is moderate, it is not too big or too small in size or amount.It takes a moderate amount of patience to be around small children all day.	
overwhelm	tràn nhập, lấn át	To overwhelm is to exist in such a large amount that someone cannot deal with it.The amount of homework her teacher assigned has overwhelmed her.	
perception	sự nhận thức, tri giác	A perception of a situation is a way of thinking about it or understanding it.Since he couldn't see, his perception of life was much different than mine.	
reunion	sự sum họp	A reunion is the meeting of people or things that have been separated. Every summer we have a family reunion at the lake.	
rig	điều hành một cách gian lận, (từ ghép) thiết bị	To rig something means to dishonestly arrange it. The bad politician rigged the election so that he would win.	
shiver	run, sự run (vì sợ, vì lạnh)	A shiver is a shaking movement the body makes when someone is cold or scared. I got shivers on my way home because it was so cold.	
sociable	thích giao tiếp	When someone is sociable, they are friendly. Many of my good friends are sociable, but I am shy.	
talkative	hay nói, ba hoa	When someone is talkative, they talk a lot.My aunt is very talkative whenever she is on the phone.	
tow	kéo, sự kéo	To tow something is to pull it. The truck was towing a trailer behind it.	
tramp	lê bước, kẻ lang thang	To tramp is to put your feet down in a loud, heavy way as you walk. The baby tramped across the floor as he was learning to walk.	
