alleviate-làm nhẹ bớt, làm đỡ, làm dịu-the doctor gave him an injection to alleviate the pain-/ə'li:vieit/
astrology-thuật chiêm tinh-Jack, who studies astrology, believes that the stars can predict the future.-/ə'strɒlədʒi/
differentiate-phân biệt-to differentiate something from another-/difə'ren∫ieit/
disrupt-gây hỗn loạn-a crowd of protesters disrupted the meeting-/dis'rʌpt/
equation-(toán học) phương trình sự đánh đồng; sự làm cho ngang nhau-the equation of wealth with happiness can be dangerous-/i'kweiʒn/
err-làm sai; sai lầm; phạm lỗi-it's better to err on the side of tolerance when dealing with young offenders-/ɜ:[r]/
erroneous-sai, sai lầm-erroneous conclusions-/i'rəʊniəs/
frantic-cuống cuồng; điên cuồng-the child's parents were frantic when she did not return home on time-/'fræηtik/
hull-thân tàu thủy, vỏ trái cây (đõ, hồ đào...)-rice is gathered, cleaned and hulled before being sold-/hʌl/
inadvertent-vô ý--/,inəd'vɜ:tənt/
improvise-ứng biến, làm ngay tại chỗ-as we've not got the proper materials, we'll just have to improvise-/'imprəvaiz/
latitude-vĩ độ, sự tự do (ứng xử, giữ ý kiến...)-they allow their children too much latitude, in my view they should be stricter-/'lætitju:d/
mariner-thủy thủ--/'mærinə[r]/
multitude-đám rất nhiều người, quần chúng-the voice of the multitude-/'mʌltitju:d/
nuisance-cái (điều, người) gây bực bội; cái (điều, người) khó chịu-the noise was so loud that it was a nuisance to the neighbours-/'nju:sns/
permanence-sự lâu dài, sự vĩnh cửu-nothing threatens the permanence of the system-/'pɜ:mənəns/
revolve-quay tròn, ngẫm nghĩ-revolve something in one's mind-/ri'vɒlv/
soothe-an ủi, làm dịu-soothe somebody's toothache-/su:ð/
stranded-bị mắc cạn (tàu)--/'strændid/
volatile-không ổn định, dễ bay hơi-a volatile political situation-/'vɒlətail/
arduous-gian khổ, gay go-an arduous task-/'ɑ:djʊəs/
attain-đạt, tới, đạt tới-attain to perfection-/ə'tein/
coexist-cùng tồn tại--/,kəʊig'zist/
conceive-nghĩ, quan niệm, thụ thai-I can't conceive how he did it-/kən'si:v/
dubious-nghi ngờ, đáng ngờ-I remain dubious about her motives-/'dju:bjəs/
ego-cái tôi, lòng tự trọng-losing the match made quite a dent in his ego-/'egəʊ/
elastic-co dãn, đàn hồi, dây chun-our plans are fairly elastic-/i'læstik/
endeavor-sự cố gắng-please make every endeavour to arrive punctually-/in'dəvə[r]/
engrave-khắc, trổ-memories of that terrible day are forever engraved on my mind-/in'greiv/
excavate-đào, khai quật-excavate a buried city-/'ekskəveit/
jagged-có mép sắc lởm chởm-a piece of glass with a jagged edge-/'dʒægid/
locale-cảnh dàn dựng-he is looking for a suitable locale for his new film-/ləʊ'ka:/
mold-khuôn đúc-they are all cast in a same (a similar) mould-/məʊld/
outright-cởi mở; thẳng thắn, ngay-be killed outright by a single gunshot-/'aʊtrait/
periphery-chu vi, ngoại vi-industrial development on the periphery of the town-/pə'rifəri/
plaster-vữa (trát tường), thạch cao-she broke her arm weeks ago and it's still in plaster-/'plɑ:stə[r]/
shovel-cái xẻng-shovel up coal into the container-/'∫ʌvl/
skeletal-[thuộc] bộ xương, như bộ xương-the skeletal bodies of starving people-/'skelətl/
terrestrial-[thuộc] đất-terrestrial species-/tə'restriəl/
vicious-xấu xa, hư hỏng-a vicious life-/'vi∫əs/
absurd-vô lý, lố bịch--
anemia-bệnh thiếu máu--
aristocracy-tầng lớp quý tộc--
aristocrat-[người] quý tộc--
attire-quần áo--
craze-mốt--
enlarge-mở--
excess-sự quá mức--
feminine-[thuộc] phụ nữ--
hallmark-dấu hiệu xác nhận phẩm chất--
pad-đệm--
predominant-nổi bật, chiếm ưu thế--
reputable-danh giá--
rouge-phấn hồng--
signify-biểu hiện--
strap-dây đeo--
tangle-rối tung--
vanity-tính kiêu căng--
vie-ganh đua--
vulgar-tầm thường--
attic-gác thượng--
chunk-khúc, tảng--
civic-[thuộc] công dân--
descent-sự xuống, nguồn gốc, dòng dõi--
din-tiếng om sòm--
dissatisfy-làm bất mãn--
fuss-sự ồn ào--
gourmet-người sành ăn; người sành rượu--
hence-sau đây, kể từ đây--
intrinsic-[thuộc] bản chất; bên trong--
kettle-cái ấm, cái siêu (để đun nước)--
ministry-(Mỹ department) bộ--
ordeal-sự thử thách--
outspoken-nói thẳng; thẳng thắn--
overwork-[bắt] làm quá sức--
particular-đặc biệt--
pungent-chua cay; cay độc (lời châm biếm...)--
snore-ngáy--
soundly-ngon giấc (ngủ)--
superintendent-viên giám sát--
alternate-xen kẽ--
apologetic-tạ lỗi, xin lỗi--
benign-tử tế, hòa nhã--
char-làm cháy đen--
clarify-làm sáng tỏ--
distress-nỗi đau khổ--
dogged-bền bỉ, ngoan cường--
ensue-sinh ra từ--
gasp-há hốc miệng--
negotiate-thương lượng--
overdose-liều quá cao--
persuasion-sự thuyết phục--
relay-ca làm việc, tiếp âm--
reluctance-sự miễn cưỡng--
restate-phát biểu lại--
sesame-cây vừng--
sip-nhấm nháp--
verge-gần như, bờ  cỏ--
wary-thận trọng--
waver-nao núng--
ashore-trên bờ--
contradict-trái lại--
counterpart-người đồng nhiệm--
devoid-không có cái gì--
diverge-rẽ theo hướng khác nhau--
elude-trốn tránh--
embryo-phôi--
fend-chống lại--
fictitious-hư cấu--
gazette-báo--
homogeneous-tính đồng nhất--
obstruct-tắc nghẽn--
plunge-nhúng, thọc--
prolong-kéo dài--
publicize-quảng cáo--
sparse-thưa thớt, lơ thơ--
surplus-thặng dư--
theorize-tạo ra lý thuyết về--
verify-thẩm tra--
vigorous-mạnh mẽ--
altar-bàn thờ--
arthritis-viêm khớp--
botany-thực vật học--
credible-đáng tin--
deceased-qua đời--
deception-sự dối trá--
decipher-đọc ra, giải (mã)--
dung-phân thú vật--
dusk-lúc chạng vạng--
gratify-làm hài lòng--
hone-mài bằng đá mài--
mash-nghiền--
ornate-trang trí công phu--
pneumonia-viêm phổi--
psychic-[thuộc] tâm lý--
psychotic-loạn tâm thần--
scope-phạm vi--
sinister-xúi quẩy, độc địa--
strife-sự xung đột--
therapeutic-điều trị--
congested-nghẹt, chật cứng--
courier-người đưa thư--
deform-làm biến dạng--
etiquette-nghi thức--
exclusive-độc quyền--
freight-chuyên chở--
garment-quần áo bề ngoài--
insomnia-chứng mất ngủ--
intuitive-trực giác--
liable-có khả năng--
obsess-ám ảnh--
overboard-[rơi] ra khỏi tàu--
premium-tiền trả thêm, cao cấp--
privilege-đặc quyền--
propel-đẩy--
socialize-hòa nhập, xã hội hóa--
suppress-dẹp tan--
tram-xe điện--
unsettle-làm bối rối, lo âu--
warp-cong, vênh, lệch lạc--
artery-động mạch, đường giao thông chính--
deterioration-sự xấu đi--
elusive-khó nắm bắt--
forage-đi săn, đi tìm kiếm thức ăn--
impede-cản trở--
induce-thuyết phục, xui khiến--
inseparable-không thể tách rời--
invalid-vô căn cứ, vô giá trị--
magnify-phóng to, phóng đại--
mainstream-xu hướng chủ đạo--
microbe-vi sinh vật--
negligible-không đáng kể--
paralysis-(y học) chứng liệt--
pest-vật gây hại--
prevail-thịnh hành, phổ biến--
respiration-sự hô hấp--
rupture-sự rách, vỡ, thủng--
savage-dã man, man rợ--
stun-làm sững sờ--
susceptible-dễ xúc cảm--
accumulate-chồng chất, tích lũy--
aerial-anten, dây trời--
apparatus-dụng cụ--
avalanche-tuyết lở--
consistency-tính kiên định--
convection-sự đối lưu--
discharge-đổ ra, tuôn ra, phóng ra--
intact-còn nguyên vẹn--
mortal-gây chết, phải chết--
omen-điềm báo--
overcast-đầy mây; u ám (trời)--
poignant-thống thiết, xót xa--
ranger-người gác rừng--
rubble-đá vụn, gạch vụn--
seclude-tách ra, tách biệt--
sideways-xoay ngang--
sob-khóc thổn thức--
sober-không say rượu--
speck-đốm, vết--
upbringing-sự chăm sóc dạy dỗ (trẻ em)--
advocate-biện hộ, ủng hộ-To advocate a plan or idea is to support or suggest it in public. The group advocated increased spending on education and schools.-
authorize-cho phép-To authorize something means to give permission for it. The mayor authorized the construction of a new statue in the park.-
civilian-thường dân-A civilian is someone who is not in the military. It was Todd's job to keep civilians from entering the army facility.-
commodity-tiện nghi,hàng hóa-A commodity is something that can be bought or sold. Fran's uncle made most of his money trading commodities.--
conquest-chinh phục-A conquest is an event by which one country takes over another country. After the conquest, the people of the small city had no freedom.--
disclose-tiết lộ-To disclose something means to tell it to someone else. John came home late, so he had to disclose his activities to his wife.--
dynamics-[thuộc] động lực, năng động-The dynamics of a situation are the way that parts of it affect each other. A good psychologist needs to know a lot about the dynamics of brain disorders.--
enroll-kết nạp vào, ghi tên cho vào (hội...)--
envious-ghen tỵ, đố kị-When someone is envious, they want something that another person has. They were envious of their neighbor's front yard.-
euphoria-trạng thái phớn phở-Euphoria is a feeling of extreme happiness. The athlete felt euphoria after he won the important game.--
festive-vui vẻ, hợp với lễ hội-When something is festive, it is happy and related to a party or celebration. Dean's favorite part of Christmas is the festive clothing that people wear.--
jolly-sung sướng vui vẻ-When someone is jolly, they are cheerful and happy. My grandmother's jo lly attitude always made me smile.--
lentil-đậu lăng (cây, hạt)-Lentils are very small beans that people cook and eat. Danni made her special soup with lentils when her husband was sick.--
marshal-sắp đặt, xếp, nguyên soái, thống chế-To marshal a group means to assemble them in order. The students were marshaled outside and put into groups.--
morale-tinh thần, ý chí-Morale is the amount of hope that people have during a difficult situation. To improve our family's morale, mom suggested going on a picnic.--
prophecy-sự tiên tri-A prophecy is a prediction about what will happen in the future. Some people believe that prophecies are actually true.--
sage-nhà thông thái-A sage is someone who is very wise. Hal always visited the local sage for help with love.--
senate-thượng viện, hội đồng nhà nước-A senate is a part of the government in some countries. Everybody liked Caroline and chose her to speak for them in the senate.--
sentiment-tình cảm(nghĩa tiêu cực), quan điểm-A sentiment is an opinion based on your feelings. Tess told everyone at the table her sentiments about eating meat.--
unrest-tình trạng rối ren-Unrest is a state of anger about something among the people in a place.High taxes caused much of the unrest that led to the Revolutionary War.--
adorn-tô điểm-To adorn something means to make it more beautiful by decorating it. Small glass beads adorned the vase.--
bliss-hạnh phúc trọn vẹn-Bliss is a state of complete happiness. Every time he sees his girlfriend, he feels a sense of bliss.--
butler-viên quản lý hầm rượu-A butler is the most important male servant in a wealthy house. Whenever he needed something, he rang a bell, and the butler appeared.--
cramp-chứng chuột rút, cản trở-A cramp is a strong pain caused by a muscle after a lot of physical use. After the marathon, Jenny got a terrible cramp in her calf muscle.--
dilapidated-đổ nát, siêu vẹo-When a building is dilapidated, it is old and in bad condition. Paint peeled off of the old dilapidated apartment building.--
evoke-gợi lên, gợi nhớ-To evoke a memory or emotion means to make it occur. The picture evoked memories of when grandmother was a girl.--
farewell-tạm biệt-A farewell is an instance of saying goodbye or a way to say it. She got on the plane after we said our farewells.--
faucet-vòi nước-A faucet is a device that controls the flow of a liquid or gas. Turn off the faucet when you are done brushing your teeth.--
filth-vết bẩn, văn chương thô bỉ-Filth is a large amount of dirt or dirty things that disgust you. There was tons of filth and trash on the shore of the river.--
flaw-vết nứt, sai lầm, điểm yếu-A flaw is a mistake in something that causes it to be less effective or correct. We discovered a major flaw in the metal chain.--
grin-cười toe toét-To grin means to smile broadly. That joke makes me grin every time I hear it.--
housekeeping-sự quản gia-Housekeeping is the maintenance of a house or an establishment like a hotel. Housekeeping is not much fun, but it has to be done.--
mound-mô đất-A mound of something is a large pile of it. There was a mound of clothes on the messy teenager's floor.--
numb-tê cóng, chết lặng-When a body part is numb, it does not have any feeling. After holding my hand under the icy water, my fingers went numb.--
reckless-coi thường, liều lĩnh-When people are reckless, they act in an unsafe way.The reckless driver posed a threat to everyone else on the road.--
slate-bảng đá-Slate is a dark grey rock that can easily be split into layers. The roof of the church was made of slate.--
stool-ghế đẩu-A stool is a seat with legs but no support for a person's arms and back. I don't find stools very comfortable to sit on.--
testament-bằng chứng, lời di chúc-A testament to something shows that it exists or is true. The beautiful performance was a testament to the singer's natural talents.--
timber-gỗ làm nhà-Timber is wood that is used for building houses and making furniture. Trees in this area are grown specifically to be used for timber.--
valve-van (nước)-A valve is a device attached to a pipe that controls the flow of liquid or air. The mechanic removed the dirt to clear the engine valve.--
certify-chứng nhận--
collaborate-cộng tác--
compile-sưu tập, biên soạn--
counteract-chống lại, làm mất tác dụng--
curb-sự kiềm chế--
diagnose-chuẩn đoán--
enact-diễn, ban hành--
federation-liên bang--
gross-béo phì, tổng thu nhập--
humane-nhân đạo--
intolerable-không thể chịu nổi--
needy-túng thiếu--
onset-sự ập tới [mùa đông]--
pledge-lời cam kết--
prohibit-cấm--
rash-thiếu suy nghĩ, đột ngột--
render-hoàn lại, đưa ra--
smallpox-bệnh đậu mùa--
transmit-truyền--
vow-lời nguyền--
camouflage-sự ngụy trang--
contemplate-thưởng ngoạn, suy ngẫm--
contend-đấu tranh--
cot-giường cũi--
enlist-đăng ký--
frontier-biên giới--
handbook-sách chỉ nam--
hesitant-do dự, lưỡng lự--
lush-sum sê--
marrow-cốt tủy--
outfit-đồ trang bị; đồ nghề--
paw-chân (của thú có vuốt như mèo, chó...)--
quiver-sự rung--
splendid-rực rỡ; lộng lẫy; huy hoàng--
stray-đi lạc; lạc--
substantial-nhiều, đáng kể, vững chắc--
torch-đèn pin--
tract-vùng, miền, dải--
vigil-sự thức khuya--
weary-mệt mỏi, rã rời--
adhere-bám chặt vào, trung thành với-To adhere means to act in the way that a rule or agreement says is right. If the new employees wish to succeed, they must adhere to the boss's rules.--
administer-cấp cho, thực hiện-To administer means to take responsibility for organizing something.The teacher's assistant will administer the test.--
compassionate-thương hại, động lòng-When people are compassionate, they feel pity and sympathy for others. The compassionate nurse tried to make the sick man feel comfortable.--
contaminate-làm ô nhiễm-To contaminate something means to put dirty or harmful chemicals into it. The lake was contaminated when pollutants entered into the water.--
deficiency-sự thiếu-A deficiency is a lack of something, especially something that is needed. Your snack has a deficiency of any real nutrients.--
epidemic-bệnh dịch-An epidemic is an outbreak of a disease that spreads quickly. It was difficult to stop the flu epidemic.--
hazard-mối nguy, mạo hiểm-A hazard is something that could be dangerous to a person's health or safety. Smoking cigarettes poses many health hazards.--
imperative- rất cấp bách; rất quan trọng-When something is imperative, it is extremely important and must be done.It was imperative for him to find a job.--
intestines-ruột-Intestines are tubes through which food passes after it leaves the stomach. Whatever you eat goes into your intestines.--
manifest-minh bạch-To manifest means to make something visible or obvious. The holiday season manifested joy in the children.--
metabolic-trao đổi chất-When something is metabolic, it relates to a person's or animal's metabolism. People who have a low metabolic rate will gain weight.--
overcrowded-quá đông-When a place is overcrowded, it has too many people or things in it. The lobby was overcrowded with people.--
paramount-tối quan trọng-When something is paramount, it is more important than anything else. The safety o f passengers must be paramount when designing a car.--
practitioner-người có chuyên môn-A practitioner is a doctor. She made an appointment with the practitioner to treat her cough.--
provision-điều khoản-The provision of something is the act of giving it to people in need or want. That department is responsible for the provision of emergency supplies.--
replenish-bổ sung-To replenish something means to make it full or complete again. We planted nearly one hundred seeds to replenish the garden after the fire.--
sterile-vô trùng-When something is sterile, it is completely clean and free from germs. The hospital room looked quite sterile.--
upgrade-nâng cấp-To upgrade something means to improve it or make it more efficient. He upgraded to a real fancy car.--
viable-khả thi-When something is viable, it is capable of doing what it is intended to do. Her method of solving the math problem seemed viable.--
voluntary-tình nguyện-When something is voluntary, it is done by choice but is not required. Many people attended the voluntary boat safety class.--
amid-giữa-If something is amid something else, then it is in the middle of it. The bee was busily flying amid the flowers in the garden.--
backstage-sau sân khấu-If something happens backstage, it occurs behind a theater's stage. After the show, the director went backstage and thanked the actors.--
billionaire-tỷ phú-A billionaire is someone who has at least one billion dollars. The sale of his inventions made the inventor a billionaire.--
brute-vũ phu, súc vật-A brute is someone who behaves or looks like a violent animal. My older brother can act like a brute when he doesn't get his way.--
clumsy-vụng về-If someone is clumsy, then they are awkward in handling things. The businessman was clumsy and dropped his work files.--
collide-va chạm-To collide with something means to hit into it while moving. The two cars collided with each other because their drivers were not careful.--
culprit-thủ phạm-A culprit is someone who did a crime or other bad deed. The police were still searching for the culprit from the robbery.--
evacuate-sơ tán-To evacuate means to leave a place of danger to a place of safety. During the flood, many families were evacuated to higher ground.--
flammable-dễ cháy-If something is flammable, then it is able to catch on fire. Be careful with that blanket near the candle. It is extremely flammable.--
mob-bọn bất lương, du côn-A mob is a large crowd of people that often wants to cause violence. The copier was destroyed by a mob of angry workers.--
premature-sinh non-If something is premature, then it is done too early or before the proper time. Mark's celebration was premature because the ball hadn't fallen in the hole.--
resent-tức tối, bực bội-To resent something means to have bad feelings about it. She resented the fact that she had never been able to play an instrument.--
satire-sự châm biếm, sự trào phúng-A satire is a work of art that uses humor and irony to make fun of something. This book is a satire of what life was like in the army.--
scrutiny-sự xem xét kỹ lưỡng; sự khảo sát tỉ mỉ-Scrutiny is the careful examination of something. A scientist should always practice scrutiny with their work.--
segregate-tách riêng, tách biệt-To segregate something means to place it in a group apart from other things. In gym class, the children were segregated into two groups: boys and girls.--
subject-chủ đề, đề tài-To subject someone to something means to force them to do or experience it.The officers subjected everyone to a careful search before they left the plane.--
testify-trịnh trọng làm chứng (trước tòa…), chứng tỏ-To testify means to give evidence as a witness. The judge listened while the victim testified about the robbery.--
tumult-sự xôn xao, sự náo động-A tumult is a loud and confused noise made by a large crowd of people.She couldn't hear her friend over the tumult of the other excited guests.--
underestimate-đánh giá thấp-To underestimate something or someone means to think they are not important. We lost the game because we underestimated the other team's skill.--
uproar-sự om sòm náo động-Uproar is loud noise caused by people who are very angry or upset. The fans made a great uproar when their team lost the game.--
accelerate-tăng tốc-To accelerate means to increase in speed. When he stepped on the gas pedal, the motorcycle accelerated.--
anew-lại, một lần nữa-If you do something anew, you do it again and in a different way.Though he had failed his driving test, he decided to try it anew.--
defect-thiếu sót, sai sót; khuyết tật-A defect is a part of something that is wrong or missing.All these bottles have a defect and must be sent back to the warehouse.--
dreary-tối tăm, ảm đạm-If something is dreary, then it is dull, dark, and lifeless. After the fire, this section of forest is rather dreary.--
duplicate-giống hệt-To duplicate something means to copy it. She duplicated her friend's movements like she was in front of a mirror.--
electromagnetic-điện từ-If something is electromagnetic, it is related to electricity and magnetic fields. Different colors of light come from different levels of electromagnetic energy.--
electron-điện tử-An electron is a particle in all atoms that has a negative electric charge.The number of electrons in an atom determines the substance the atoms make.--
glide-lướt-To glide means to fly on extended wings with little or no effort. When the wind is blowing, birds can glide easily through the sky.--
ingenious-khéo léo, tài tình-If someone is ingenious, then they are very smart. Charles was the only person ingenious enough to repair the plane's engines.--
innovation-sự đổi mới, sự canh tân-An innovation is a product or an idea that is new or very original. Mrs. Johnson made a great innovation to the company's business plan.--
innovative-đưa vào nhiều đổi mới-If something or someone is innovative, they can think in creative ways. Since Peter was so innovative, he was chosen to lead the science team.--
launch-đưa ra, hạ thủy-To launch something means to make it go into motion.The boat launched from the dock and floated down the river.--
meteorological-[thuộc] khí tượng, [thuộc] thời tiết-If something is meteorological, it is concerned with the science of weather. The thunderstorm was so large that it became a great meteorological event.--
meteorology-khí tượng học-Meteorology is the science that studies the weather.In order to understand the weather, you have to study meteorology.--
penetrate-thâm nhập; thấm qua; xuyên qua-To penetrate something means to enter into it. The knife easily penetrated the surface of the orange.--
propulsion-sự đẩy [tới]-Propulsion is the force that moves something forward. The propulsion lifted the rocket into the sky.--
simulate-tái hiện-To simulate something means to copy its actions or characteristics. The French language teacher could simulate the accent of a French citizen.--
spur-cái thôi thúc-To spur someone means to urge them into action. The coach's speech spurred her team into playing the best game of their lives.--
stimulate-kích thích-To stimulate something means to cause or to increase activity in it. Doctors sometimes use electric shock to stimulate a patient's heartbeat.--
tenacious-bám chặt-If someone is tenacious, then they do not easily give up. I'm sure that he'll finish that difficult sale. He is very tenacious.--
beforehand-trước, sớm hơn-If something is done beforehand, then it is done in advance. He packed his luggage beforehand, so he was able to leave right away.--
centigrade-[theo thang nhiệt độ] bách phân-If a temperature is centigrade, it is scaled, so water freezes at 0° and boils at 100°. During the spring time, the temperature gets as warm as 26 degrees centigrade.--
chatter-hót líu lo, ríu rít (chim); kêu chí chóe (khỉ)-To chatter means to talk quickly about unimportant things. The children chattered in the back of the classroom.--
concerto-a piano conxectô-A concerto is music for a solo instrument and played with an orchestra. The piano concerto has a section in which only the piano plays.--
condense-[làm] ngưng tụ-To condense a gas means to make it a liquid. The cool air made tiny drops of water condense on the tops of the grass.--
cove-vịnh mỏ-A cove is a part of land where it curves inward around the sea. They hid the boat in a small cove on the south side o f the island.--
deteriorate-[làm] hư hỏng-To deteriorate means to become steadily worse. The nation's economy continued to deteriorate despite the politicians' efforts.--
exterior-bề ngoài, bên ngoài-An exterior is the outside surface of something. The exterior of the nut was hard and woody, but the inside was soft and delicious.--
freeway-đường cao tốc-A freeway is a road with no stops where cars travel at high speeds. Once you get on the freeway, it only takes an hour to drive to my parent's farm.--
hearty-nồng nhiệt, hồ hởi-If someone or something is hearty, then they are loud and happy. The grandmother ended her story with a hearty laugh that pleased her grandchild.--
hospitable-mến khách-If someone is hospitable, they are friendly to strangers. At dinner, Dad was very hospitable to my friends.--
manor-thái ấp-A manor is a large house with many rooms. The manor had over forty rooms in addition to beautiful gardens.--
monastery-tu viện-A monastery is a building in which monks live.The monks at this monastery are famous for their bread and music.--
nursery-nhà trẻ-A nursery is a room where babies and children sleep, play, or are cared for. The children kissed their parents goodnight and went upstairs to the nursery.--
outstretched-dang ra(tay chân)-If something is outstretched, then it is extended to its full length. The cat stood on its back legs with its front legs outstretched.--
parcel-gói, bưu kiện, mảnh đất-A parcel is a package of things to be carried or mailed somewhere. The parcel looked like it had been stepped on by someone.--
profile-hồ sơ-A profile is an outline of a face, usually as seen from the side. The drawing of Olivia's profile came out very well.--
vivacious-hoạt bát, sôi nổi-If someone is vivacious, they are talkative and cheerful. Everyone at the party was very vivacious and having a good time.--
winding-uốn khúc, quanh co-If something is winding, then it follows a twisting course. The winding river turned and looped around the bases o f the hills.--
zip-dây khóa kéo, kéo khóa-To zip something means to close it with a zipper. She zipped her backpack closed after putting her books inside it.--
airway-đường không khí-An airway is the passage by which air reaches a person's lungs.Since he was sick, mucus would occasionally get stuck in his airway.--
Almighty-quyền lực tối cao-The Almighty is a name for a god in a religion. Before eating, they thanked the Almighty for their food.--
advent-sự đến (điều quan trọng)-An advent is the arrival or beginning of an important person, thing, or event. During the advent of radio, very few programs actually played music.--
constellation-chòm sao, nhóm-A constellation is a group of stars with a recognizable shape. That constellation in the shape of a square is named after a flying horse.--
definitive-cuối cùng, dứt khoát-If something is definitive, then it is the most official. This library has the definitive collection of books on ancient Egypt.--
equate-đặt ngang hàng-To equate one thing with another is to compare them and consider them very similar.She equated the man's messy appearance with a lack of responsibility.--
inhale-hít vào-To inhale means to take air or a smell into the lungs. The camper inhaled the cool and fresh mountain air and felt relaxed.--
invoke-viện ra, dẫn ra-To invoke something is to mention it to support an argument or ask for help.Before going into battle, the soldier invoked the name of his god for protection.--
lunar-mặt trăng-If something is lunar, then it is related to the moon. During a lunar eclipse, Earth's shadow darkens the moon's surface.--
novelty-tính mới lạ, điều mới lạ-A novelty is something that is new, original, or strange.Ice cream was a novelty for him since he rarely had any.--
outmoded-lỗi thời-If something is outmoded, then it is no longer in fashion or use. Black and white television sets are outmoded.--
personalize-cá nhân hóa-To personalize something means to design it to meet a person's unique needs. He personalized the woman's exercises to give her a better workout.--
pertain-thuộc về-To pertain to something means to be related or connected to it. All o f the lawyer's questions pertained to events around the night of the crime.--
primal-nguyên thủy, ban sơ-If something is primal, then it is very basic or related to the origin of something. Cooking the food over the camp fire felt like a primal way of making a meal.--
psychiatric-[thuộc] bệnh học tâm thân-If something is psychiatric, then it is related to mental illness or its treatment. The doctor said the patient might have a psychiatric problem.--
psychiatry-bệnh học tâm thần-Psychiatry is the study and treatment of mental illness.Studying psychiatry has taught me a lot about mental illness.--
reflex-phản xạ-A reflex is an unconscious action in which a body part responds to an event. There was a reflex when the doctor hit his knee with a rubber hammer.--
seizure-sự bắt giữ, sự tịch thu-A seizure is sudden illness in which the body loses control and shakes. Bright flashing lights can cause seizures in children.--
session-kỳ học-A session is a meeting at a regular time in order to discuss and solve an issue. Every three months the managers met in a session to discuss regional sales.--
utensil-đồ dùng, dụng cụ-A utensil is a common tool or container. It seemed that a fork was the wrong utensil for trying to eat the soup.--
adhesive-chất dính, dính-An adhesive is a substance used for sticking things together. The carpenter used an adhesive to hold the two pieces of wood together.--
adverse-ngược, chống đối-If something is adverse, then it is harmful.Not eating healthy foods can have an adverse effect on your health.--
dependency-nước phụ thuộc-A dependency is a strong need for someone or something. The child still has a dependency on her mother.--
dump-vứt bỏ, bỏ mặc-To dump something means to throw it away or get rid of it. She dumped the garbage into the trash can.--
eternal-bất diệt, vĩnh hằng-If something is eternal, then it lasts forever.She said that her love for him was eternal.--
fluctuate-dao động-To fluctuate means to rise and fall in number or amount. Prices for gasoline have been fluctuating all month.--
fro-di chuyển qua lại-If something moves to and fro, it moves backward and forward or side to side. Her long hair went to and fro as she swung on the swing.--
inclusion-sự bao gồm-Inclusion is the act of including someone or something in a group. Her inclusion into the photo club was well received.--
intermediate-ở giữa, trung cấp-If something is intermediate, then it is in the middle of two levels, places, ortimes. He selected the intermediate ski hill to begin his afternoon of skiing.--
intermittent-cách quãng, gián đoạn-If something is intermittent, then it happens in a way that is not constant. It was hard to focus because intermittent noises came from the workers outside.--
mentor-người hướng dẫn-A mentor is a person with experience or knowledge who advises someone. The students each chose a mentor to help them with the experiment.--
phoenix-chim phượng hoàng-A phoenix is an imaginary bird that burned to ashes and was reborn.Some believe the phoenix is a symbol for rebirth and a new beginning.--
photosynthesis-sự quang hợp-Photosynthesis is the process in which plants change sunlight and air.The chemical in plants that makes them green is used in photosynthesis.--
pollen-phấn hoa-Pollen is the tiny yellow powder made in the flowers of plants. During the spring, the pollen in the air makes some people become sick.--
regain-lấy lại-To regain something means to get it back. The battery regained its power after being recharged.--
reverse-để dành, dự trữ-To reverse means to change to the opposite direction. They reversed their direction after seeing the sign.--
swarm-bầy, đàn-A swarm is a group of flying insects.A beautiful swarm of butterflies filled the summer sky.--
texture-kết cấu-Texture is the quality of something that can be known by its touch. The texture of her skin was very soft and smooth.--
tickle-cù, cảm giác gây nhột-To tickle someone is to touch them in a way that causes laughter. The mother tickled the little boy's foot, and he screamed with laughter.--
vibrant-ngân vang-If something is vibrant, then it is bright and full of color. Their new shirts were a vibrant shade of red.--
abolish-thủ tiêu, bãi bỏ--
amend-sửa cho tốt hơn, cải thiện--
aspire-khao khát--
censor-người kiểm duyệt (sách, báo, phim ảnh...)--
charter-hiến chương--
constitution-hiến pháp--
cosmopolitan-gồm người từ nhiều nước, gồm người tứ xứ--
disseminate-gieo rắc; truyền bá--
flatter-tâng bốc, nịnh hót--
infamous-khét tiếng--
lame-què, khập khiễng--
limp-mềm, không chắc--
outburst-cơn [bột phát], trận--
pathological-[thuộc] bệnh, do bệnh--
phenomenal-kỳ lạ, lạ thường--
poll-cuộc bầu cử cuộc bỏ phiếu; sự kiểm phiếu--
remorse-sự hối hận, sự ăn năn--
secrecy-sự giữ bí mật, sự kín đáo--
tackle-(hàng hải) dây dợ (để kéo buồm)--
trance-sự nhập định, sự xuất thần--
coward-kẻ nhát gan, kẻ nhút nhát--
delete-xóa, gạch bỏ--
firsthand-tận mắt--
earnest-nghiêm trang--
ethnic-dân tộc--
exclude-loại trừ--
fluent-thông thạo--
imperial-hoàng gia--
inclusive-bao gồm--
legislature-cơ quan lập pháp--
linguistic-[thuộc] ngôn ngữ học--
monolingual-chỉ dùng một ngôn ngữ, đơn ngữ--
nationality-quốc tịch--
patriot-người yêu nước--
prosecute-truy tố--
racial-[đặc trưng cho] chủng tộc;[do] chủng tộc--
solemn-nghiêm nghị--
solidarity-sự đoàn kết; tình đoàn kết--
tact-sự tế nhị, sự khéo xử--
undermine-xói mòn chân--
allocate-phân, cấp--
appetizing-làm cho ăn ngon miệng, ngon lành--
blizzard-trận bão tuyết dữ dội--
cavity-lỗ hổng (như ở chỗ sâu răng...) ổ khoang--
clockwise-theo chiều kim đồng hồ--
concentric-đồng tâm--
courtesy-hành động lịch sự; lời nói lịch sự--
crisp-khoai tây cắt mỏng ràn giòn--
discord-sự bất hòa; mối bất hóa--
frigid-tủ ướp lạnh--
generate-tạo ra, phát ra--
glacial-(địa lý) [thuộc] thời kỳ băng hà; do băng hà--
interchange-đổi chỗ, hoán đổi--
locker-tủ (để quần áo ở bể bơi...)--
multicultural-thuộc nhiều lãnh vực văn hoá khác nhau--
omission-sự bỏ sót; điều bỏ sót--
oversee-giám sát--
pierce-chọc thủng, xuyên qua; khoét, dùi--
replicate-sao chép lại; mô phỏng--
wavy-[có] hình làn sóng--
abide-(dùng với can, could trong câu phủ định hay câu hỏi) chịu đựng--
conversion-sự đổi, sự chuyển đổi--
cram-nhồi, nhét, tọng--
defer-hoãn--
export-sự xuất khẩu; ngành xuất khẩu--
fume-khói; hơi--
habitual-thường lệ, quen thuộc--
justify-bào chữa, biện bạch--
output-công suất; năng lượng (do một máy phát sản ra)--
overpopulation-dân số quá mức--
patent-bằng sáng chế--
penalize-xử phạt--
petroleum-xăng dầu--
prototype-nguyên mẫu--
scrap-sắt vụn--
sector-ngành--
subscribe-subscribe--
subsist-đăng kí--
suspend-đình chỉ--
synthesis-tổng hợp--
acrobat-diễn viên nhào lộn (xiếc)--
advocacy-sự ủng hộ--
communal-công, chung--
fluid-lỏng--
harmonize-[làm cho] hài hòa--
industrious-cần cù, siêng năng--
inventive-phát minh, sáng chế--
judicial-[thuộc] tòa án;[thuộc] quan tòa;[thuộc] tư pháp--
Mandarin-tiếng Phổ thông Trung Quốc, tiếng Quan thoại--
metropolitan-[thuộc] thủ đô; ở thủ đô--
mimic-giống hệt--
misguided-bị lầm lạc, bị sai lầm (trong suy nghĩ)--
rehearse-diễn tập (vở kịch...)--
scorn-sự khinh bỉ, sự khinh miệt--
sensory-[thuôc] giác quan--
staple-ghim kẹp (để đóng một số tờ giấy lại với nhau)--
statute-đạo luật, điều lệ, quy chế--
veteran-người kỳ cựu--
villain-kẻ hung ác, tên côn đồ--
vine-cây nho, cây leo; cây bò--
constrain-cưỡng ép, ép buộc, ép--
depot-kho chứa; kho hàng; kho quân khu, (từ Mỹ) ga (xe lửa), bến (xe buýt)--
emulate-thi đua--
forefinger-ngón tay trỏ--
guts-Ruột--
inherent-gắn liền với, vốn có--
intimidate-hăm dọa--
janitor-(từ Mỹ janitor) người [được giao] trông nom (một ngôi nhà, một công trình kiến trúc)--
moist-ẩm, ẩm ướt--
nope-không--
prod-chọc, đâm, thúc--
ransom-sự chuộc (người bị bắt cóc)--
restrain-kiềm chế, kìm, nén, dằn lại--
saliva-nước bọt--
spit-nhổ ra; phun ra--
sprint-chạy nướt rút--
stunt-trò [cốt để] gây sự chú ý--
tolerant-(+ off, towards) khoan dung; tha thứ--
vampire-ma cà rồng--
yawn-há miệng, há hốc ra (đồ vật)--
analogy-sự giống nhau, sự tương tự--
ancestry-dòng họ, tông môn--
archer-cung thủ--
conspiracy-sự đồng mưu; âm mưu--
deputy-người được ủy quyền, người thay quyền, đại diện--
earl-bá tước (ở Anh)--
fragrant-fragrant--
funnel-cái phễu, ống khói (tàu thủy...)--
hereditary-di truyền, cha truyền con nối--
hymn-bài thánh ca--
invert-đảo ngược--
prey-con mồi--
procession-đoàn diễu hành; đám rước--
prophet-nhà tiên tri; người tiên đoán--
sarcastic-châm chọc--
seasoning-gia vị--
sodium-natri--
tyranny-sự bạo ngược--
tyrant-kẻ bạo ngược--
vinegar-giấm--
adjoining-gần kề, kế bên, tiếp giáp, bên cạnh, sát nách--
allege-viện lẽ, viện ra--
arch-vòm cầu, nhịp cầu--
assemble-tụ tập, tập hợp--
casualty-người thương vong; nạn nhân--
erect-người thương vong; nạn nhân--
foul-hôi, bẩn--
hectare-hécta (100 a)--
heighten-nâng cao, tăng thêm--
hospitality-lòng mến khách--
mansion-ngôi nhà lớn, khu chung cư--
outnumber-đông hơn--
overjoyed-vui mừng khôn xiết--
pasture-đồng cỏ; bãi cỏ--
petition-kiến nghị--
renovate-xây mới lại (ngôi nhà cũ...), tân trang--
revise-xét lại, xem lại, duyệt lại--
slab-phiến, tấm--
terrace-đất bậc thang, ruộng bậc thang (ở sườn đồi...)--
turf-lớp đất mặt (đầy rễ cỏ); tảng đất mặt có cỏ--
analogous-tương tự--
binoculars-ống nhòm--
bulk-kích cỡ lớn--
comprise-bao gồm, gồm có--
depict-tả, mô tả--
dual-hai, lưỡng, đôi--
Fahrenheit-[theo thang nhiệt] Fahrenheit--
fulfill-thực hiện, hoàn thành, làm trọn--
grove-lùm cây, bãi cây--
ore-quặng--
outback-vùng nội địa xa xôi hẻo lánh--
outweigh-nặng hơn, trội hơn (về giá trị, tầm quan trọng)--
paradox-điều ngược đời; nghịch lý; hình tượng nghịch lý (trong khi nói, khi viết văn)--
pier-cầu tàu, trụ cầu--
shortcut-phím rút gọn, phím tắt--
tariff-thuế suất hải quan--
thermometer-nhiệt kế--
tilt-[làm cho] nghiêng--
vice versa  ngược lại--
whereabouts-ở chỗ nào; gần chỗ nào (dùng khi không cần một câu trả lời thật chính xác)--
amber-màu vàng nâu hổ phách--
charcoal-than củi, chì than (để vẽ)--
columnist-nhà báo chuyên mục--
courteous-lịch sự, nhã nhặn--
credentials-giấy ủy nhiệm; thư ủy nhiệm--
crickets-con dế mèn--
delta-châu thổ [Nile]--
detergent-chất tẩy--
euphemism-lời nói trại, uyển ngữ--
expire-hết hạn--
granite-khoáng chất--
gravel-rải sỏi--
haunt-ám ảnh--
liberal-rộng rãi, bao dung--
maze-mớ rối rắm, mê cung--
moss-rêu--
peck-mổ (bằng mỏ)--
pebble-đá cuội--
reservoir-bể chứa nước, hồ chứa nước (cho một vùng)--
streak-vệt, sọc--
